Filename: /home/dev/scikit_learn_data/20news_home/20news-bydate-train/sci.space/61207
Truth category: 2 (sci.space)
Assigned cluster: 0 (space orbit like use launch know moon think time shuttl)

Raw data:
============ START RAW ==========================
From: Wales.Larrison@ofa123.fidonet.org
Subject: Commercial Space News #22
X-Sender: newtout 0.08 Feb 23 1993
Lines: 666

COMMERCIAL SPACE NEWS/SPACE TECHNOLOGY INVESTOR NUMBER 22

   This is number twenty-two in an irregular series on commercial 
space activities.  The commentaries included are my thoughts on 
these developments.  

   Sigh... as usual, I've gotten behind in getting this column 
written.  I can only plead the exigency of the current dynamics in 
the space biz.  This column is put together at lunch hour and after 
the house quiets down at night, so data can quickly build up if 
there's a lot of other stuff going on.  I've complied a lot of 
information and happenings since the last column, so I'm going to 
have to work to keep this one down to a readable length.  Have fun! 

CONTENTS:
1- US COMMERCIAL SPACE SALES FLATTEN IN 1993
2- DELTA WINS TWO KEY LAUNCH CONTRACTS
3- COMMERCIAL REMOTE SENSING VENTURE GETS DOC "GO-AHEAD"
4- INVESTMENT FIRM CALLS GD'S SPACE BIZ "STILL A GOOD INVESTMENT" 
5- ARIANE PREDICTS DIP IN LAUNCH DEMAND
6- NTSB INVESTIGATES PEGASUS LAUNCH OVER ABORTED ABORT
7- ANOTHER PEGASUS COMPETITOR IS ANNOUNCED
8- GEORGIA LAUNCH SITE DROPPED FROM PLANNING
9- SPAIN'S CAPRICORNIA LAUNCHER STILL PROCEEDING
10- PACASTRO SIGNS LAUNCH RESERVATION WITH SWEDISH SPACE CORP
11- CHINA AND TAIWAN JOINT SATELLITE VENTURE REPORTED
12- SOUTH KOREA ANNOUNCES NATIONAL MOVE INTO SPACE TECHNOLOGIES
13- SPACE TECHNOLOGY INDEXES THROUGH MARCH
FINAL NOTES
  
ARTICLES
--------------------------------------------------------------------
1- US COMMERCIAL SPACE SALES FLATTEN IN 1993
   The US Department of Commerce projects US commercial space sales 
will remain flat in 1993, with current data showing only a 2 percent 
growth over 1992.  As published in "US Industrial Outlook 1993" 
(which was released in January), revenues from the 1993 US space 
business are currently projected to be about $4,890 M. 
   In contrast to previous years when US commercial space sales had 
shown double digits growth rates, this year's projected results are 
driven by the US satellite manufacturing industry, where sales are 
projected to drop from 12 satellites worth $1,300 M in 1992 to 7 
satellites worth $ 670 M in 1993.  The US Industrial Outlook also 
projects U.S. commercial launchers faces flat demand in coming year, 
and while predicting that 1993 revenues will increase 10 percent to 
$450 M, future sales will be "adversely affected by the downward 
revision in Department of Defense launch plans."                           
   Offsetting flat launch revenues and satellite deliveries, 
revenues for fixed and mobile satellite services are projected to 
increase to $1,900 M, primarily driven by increased revenues from 
broadcast and cable TV networks.  Similarly, remote sensing products 
and sales are projected to increase to $250 M in 1993 (up 15%). 

 US COMMERCIAL SPACE REVENUES     1989  1990   1991 1992(r) 1993(e)
 Commercial satellites             900 1,000  1,100  1,300     670
 Satellite services                750   800  1,200  1,500   1,900
   Fixed                          (700) (735)(1,115)(1,275) (1,520)
   Mobile                          (50) ( 65)(   85)(  225) (  380)
 Satellite ground equip            790   860  1,350  1,400   1,560
   Mobile equipment                (40)  (85)  (280)  (352)    ???
 Commercial launches               150   570    380    450     450
 Remote sensing data and services  125   155    190    215     250
 Private microgravity research lab  --    --     --     --      60
                                 ===== =====  ======  =====   =====
   TOTAL ANNUAL REVENUES         2,715 3,385   4,220  4,815   4,890
        (r) = revised data for 1992   (e) = estimated data for 1993
   [Commentary: This is the first look at how the US commercial 
space industry is expected to do in 1993.  In general, not a bad 
report -- with most of the bad news concentrated in the satellite 
manufacturing area.  There, changes of only a few satellites worth 
$100 M or so apiece can substantially influence the annual 
projection.  If we look forward over several years, this market 
sector should retain strong sales as US firms have been very 
successful in regaining international market share in the satellite 
business. 
   Furthermore, sales of satellite ground equipment should go up in 
the next revision of this data, expected to be released about mid-
year.  Data on mobile satellite ground equipment sales (including 
such items as GPS receivers and portable satellite terminals) 
appears to be missing from the January data set.  DoC usually 
publishes a listing of  "Space Business Indicators" in mid-year, and 
the next revision of commercial space revenues should be released 
then.  I expect the revised revenues should easily top $5,000 M, if 
the mobile satellite ground equipment are added back into the 
numbers, and the year should show about a 10% overall market growth. 
   Looking beyond this year's data, future markets look quite 
promising.  The DoC projects satellite service revenues could top 
$3,000 M by 1995 if new mobile satellite services and direct 
broadcasting are implemented as planned, and that mobile satellite 
station sales are expected to continue to growth at 15-20 % per year 
through the mid 1990's.  My numbers are somewhat more pessimistic 
for near-term market growth, but I agree the trend should be for 
substantial growth in US commercial space sales over at least the 
next 5-10 years.  (My pessimism is due to more conservative 
assumptions on market capture and growth in LEO communications and 
satellite direct broadcasting services.  I don't believe all of the 
current players in the yet-to-be-born LEO communications satellite 
market and in the yet-to-be-proven direct broadcasting market will 
be financial successes, nor that sales growth will be as explosive 
as currently projected.) 
   It should also be noted this year's DoC data is the first 
release to show revenues from privately funded microgravity research 
facilities.  The $60 M shown in the Janurary data is primarily for 
the Spacehab module, planned for launch in April on the Space 
Shuttle, but also hidden in these numbers are the projected first 
sales from the COMET orbital launch and recovery experiment module.] 

2- DELTA WINS TWO KEY LAUNCH CONTRACTS
   McDonnell Douglas Corporation, which builds and markets the Delta 
launch vehicle has won two important launch contracts.  Motorola 
Inc. announced in mid February that it had selected the Delta to 
launch most of the satellites in the 66-satellite Iridium LEO 
communications constellation, and in mid April, McDonnell Douglas 
was awarded the USAF Medium Launch Vehicle III contract. 
   The launch services contract with Motorola for the Iridium 
constellation launch is for at launch of least 45 Iridium 
satellites.  Another 21 satellites have been contracted to be 
launched by Khrunichev Enterprise in Russian on 3 Proton vehicle 
launches.  These 45 satellites planned for the Delta will be 
launched 5 at a time,  providing for at least 9 launches.  
Additional satellites in the Iridium constellation, such as a 
planned on-orbit spares, may also be launched on Delta.  Although 
details of the launch services contract were reported to be 
negotiation, and not yet final. 
   The USAF MLV contract also went to MDC, bidding a variant of 
their Delta II launcher.  This contract is only initially worth $7.5 
million, but establishes a set of launch options for up to 36 
launches, encompassing launches from 1996 through 2002.  These 
launches will deploy the next generation of the USAF's Global 
Positioning System Block IIR navigation satellites, plus other 
programs.  First option for to meet the USAF launch options is 
expected to be exercised this year, after which the USAF is expected 
to request launches of up to 6 Deltas per year for at least 6 years.  
Under this contract the USAF can also request "launch on demand" 
services from MDC for the 1996-2002 time period, with a launch to 
occur within 40 days of the request. 
    [Commentary:  If these two contracts are fulfilled, they should 
provide an excellent business base for MDC's Delta launch program 
through the turn of the century.  Combined, these two contracts have 
a potential for about 45 launches, worth about $2,200 M to MDC, and 
sustaining a core business base of $300-400 M/year.  Other contracts 
for international and commercial payloads, as well as for NASA 
Medium ELV-class payloads, will add to this business base -- keeping 
MDC as a viable commerical launch company. 
    However, it should be noted there are risk elements in these 
contracts.  Motorola's Iridium LEO communications constellation has 
not yet received a US Federal Communications Commission license for 
operation in the U.S., nor has Motorola lined up all the financing 
and financial partners for the Iridium venture.  Without these 
approvals or financial backing there will be no Iridium launches.  
But, hopefully, these uncertainties will be settled this year. 
   Similarly, the USAF MLV III program has been the target of 
several Congressional actions which have slowed the production of 
the GPS Block IIR satellites and deleted the funding for the MLV III 
program in favor of the USAF NLS/"Spacelifter" program.  At this 
time, while it appears the MLV III contract will be executed, future 
funding for the MLV III and other USAF commercial launch contracts 
is being reconsidered as part of national space launch strategy 
reviews.  Some opinions expressed from within the Administration and 
Congress propose cancellation of all "ELV upgrade" programs 
(including the MLV programs) in favor of the proposed "Spacelifter" 
program.  Such opinions may have some weight in this year's budget 
deliberations, particularly as DoD funds will be more difficult to 
find in the shrinking US Defense budget.] 
 
3- COMMERCIAL REMOTE SENSING VENTURE GETS DOC "GO-AHEAD"
   The first commercial license to operate a remote sensing 
satellite was approved in early February by the US Department of 
Commerce's Office of Space Commerce.  A license was granted to 
WorldView Imaging Corporation of Oakland, California to build and 
operate a pair of LEO imaging satellites to provide multi-spectral 
images of the Earth. 
   [Commentary:  There has been little data released on this venture 
by WorldView and the DoC, other than the announcement of the 
operating and construction license.  This was reported to be at the 
request of WorldView.  Most industry speculation identifies this new 
venture as a "Star Wars" spinoff, using SDI-type technology to 
provide digital Earth sensing data, and heavily integrated into 
digital GIS databases for remote sensing/GIS users.  Most probable 
customers for this service include exploration geologists, 
agricultural planners, and urban planners.  
   It is noteworthy this is the first commercial venture under the 
1992 Land Remote Sensing Policy Act.  The Act, as passed last 
November, provides that remote sensing data gathered from private remote 
sensing craft may be sold to users at differing prices.  Prior to 
this act, remote sensing data from all satellites had to be sold to 
all users at the same prices, and private remote sensing ventures 
would have had to sell at the government-set Landsat data prices. 
   There are rumors of several other potential commercial remote 
sensing ventures working their way through the system at different 
stages of development.  I think the large Landsat and SPOT satellite 
systems will provide the majority of the satellite remote sensing 
data market for the next decade or so.  In contrast to these large, 
government-sponsored remote sensing systems, smaller market ventures 
such as WorldView and others can exploit market niches and use 
innovative technology, and I believe, can find profitability on the 
margin.  I predict there may be some very interesting ventures 
appearing in the next year or so.] 
                 
4- INVESTMENT FIRM CALLS GD'S SPACE BIZ "STILL A GOOD INVESTMENT" 
   Wall Street investment house Morgan Stanley thinks General 
Dynamic's Space Systems Division could still be a moneymaker, 
despite having failed in the last 3 Atlas launches.  In a recent 
analyst's report Morgan Stanley said "We are more than ever 
convinced that if the company can return the Atlas to its historical 
95%-plus success rate, this will become a highly profitable, cash-
generating unit."  Based upon discussions with GD's corporate 
management, Morgan Stanley projects that if the Atlas problems are 
cleared up the unit could see $70 M in earnings per year by 1995 and 
$100 M per year by 2000.  This is based upon GD's projection of 
capturing about 10 Atlas launches per year on the world market. 
   [Commentary:  Three failures in a row of their launch system has 
hurt General Dynamic's Space Systems Division.  Since GD has 
restructured to only keep a very few profitable core businesses, 
many market pundits have been speculating GD's space business might 
be next to be sold.  The Morgan Stanley report indicates GD's Space 
Systems Division has some potential as a moneymaker, despite current 
problems -- if they can get their act together.  Sales are projected 
to be about $560 M in 1993, which will probably generate a loss of 
about $25 M.  If GD can capture their projected share of the space 
launch market, and if they have managed to clean up the reliability 
of their Atlas launchers, then they could generate healthy profits 
from those sales.  But until they demonstrate the Atlas Centaur 
program is back on track, this division will continue to show 
substantial losses. 
   In response to the sell-off rumors, in my opinion, this operation 
is not a really good candidate for takeover and quick profitability.  
To do such a takeover, the current set corporate and divisional 
management would be replaced with another set from outside the firm.  
In GD SSD's case, to get the division back on track, the management 
team will have to concentrate hard on the technical problems with 
the Atlas Centaur, as well as in selling Atlas services.  This would 
indicate only another firm with experience in rocket launch 
operations could find such talent in-house, and be able to convince 
customers to buy their launch services.  Optimally, the firm would 
have substantial liquid rocket experience, and experience in 
marketing space technology internationally as well.  Candidates for 
this might be TRW, Rockwell, Lockheed, and Martin, and possibly 
McDonnell Douglas and Boeing.  But most of those firms have cash 
flow problems (MDC), have had a substantial business contraction 
(Boeing and MDC), are involved with other launch firms (Lockheed), 
or have taken on substantial debt (Martin).  And coming up with the 
$700-1500 M purchase price for the division is a big chunk of 
change for any company.] 
 
5 - ARIANE PREDICTS DIP IN LAUNCH DEMAND
   Arianespace, the operator of the Ariane launch system, is 
projecting a dip in launch demand in the late 1990's.  In early 
February, Arianespace released their annual market survey, which 
detailed their projection of the space transportation market for the 
next decade. 
   Over short run, Arianespace expects to retain their dominant 
position and sustain a majority share of the launch market.  Of 54 
international and commercial launches planned through 1995, Ariane 
holds contracts for 31, General Dynamics' Atlas vehicle holds 14 
contracts, McDonnell Douglas' Delta holds 7, and Great Wall's Long 
March vehicle holds 2 launch contracts. 
   Three-quarters of future launch contracts for which Ariane can 
compete are projected to come from communications satellites with 
the remaining 25% split between weather, Earth observation, and 
scientific satellites.  Most of the future telecommunications demand 
growth is predicted to come from the Asia/Pacific region. 
   Arianespace expects the current market consolidation of 
individual satellite operators into regional or national groups will 
continue, with these groups investing in heavier satellites with 
larger communications payloads carrying more transponders. 
Arianespace predicts the average mass of telecommunications 
satellites should increase by 20 % over today's average level, to 
about 3000 kg in GEO. 
   Demand for commercial launch services is expected to remain 
strong over the next three years, but in the second half of the 
decade, Arianespace predicts demand will decrease.  Arianespace 
bases this prediction upon a matching of satellite transponder 
demand and supply,  particularly as new data compression techniques 
appear to could double or triple transponder capacity using existing 
or near-term transponders. 
   One of the significant possible changes in the market was 
identified as the arrival of new launch vehicles, including Russian 
launch systems.  But Arianespace predicts that in the long term, 
investors purchasing launch services are looking for the best trade 
off between launch service quality and price, and that Russian and 
other new launch services will have to prove out their capabilities 
and service quality, and their market penetration will be minimal. 
   [Commentary:  Ariane releases their market surveys annually, and 
I reported on their prior market survey in a past issue of CSN/STI.  
Comparing the two surveys, there aren't outstanding differences in 
the numbers.   The most notable change is the consideration of new 
data compression techniques, reducing the demand for new physical 
transponders on orbit.
   I note that in contrast to some predictions, demand for space-
based communications transponders appears to be remain strong. While 
fiber optic lines are making substantial inroads into the 
established point-to-point telecommunications markets, growing 
demand for telecommunications services world wide and for point-to-
multipoint broadcast services have prevented a decrease in space 
transponder demand.  Fiberoptic cables provide a higher capability 
service, but only from established point A to established point B. 
To establish a fiberoptic link it is necessary to install cable 
between the points, and while there are improved network solutions, 
installing a large network of distributed fiberoptic links can cost 
millions or billions of dollars.  
   For broadcast services where there is not an existing ground 
network structure, satellites still offer the most cost effective 
solution.  And if new services are required into a new region, it is 
cheaper to install a small satellite link costing only a few tens of 
thousands of dollars and tie into the existing global satellite 
network.  This allows rapid growth of new satellite services, and 
has kept demand high.  The replacement market for fiberoptics is 
growing as well, since as demand grows between the points serviced, 
it becomes cost effective to later install a fiberoptic link to 
handle the increase in traffic. 
   Since the telecommunications and data transfer markets are still 
growing rapidly, satellite market projections remain rosy.  But 
satellites are also getting longer orbital lifetimes.  Current 
generation satellites are now getting guarantees of at 15 years of 
on-orbit service or more, in contrast to 10 years of service from 
last generation's satellites.  This has cut back some of the launch 
demand, as satellite owners are rescheduling replacement satellite 
launches over longer intervals. 
   And as last note; Arianespace didn't flag it this year, but it 
looks like the space transportation market will be rather over-
supplied by existing launch systems in the near term.  The annual 
commercial launch demand is for about 15-20 medium sized satellites 
per year.  From the supply side, Ariane is capable of launching up 
to about a dozen medium sized satellites a year, Delta is capable of 
about 9-12 per year, Atlas is capable of 6-12, Long March 4-8, 
Japan's H-Vehicle 2-4, Russia's Proton capable of 8, and other 
systems such as Zenit and Soyuz another 10-20 medium launches per 
year.  That's a lot of capability for a small market. 
   We can only expect the competition to intensify for commercial 
launches.]

6- NTSB INVESTIGATES PEGASUS LAUNCH OVER ABORTED ABORT 
   The 9 Feb Pegasus launch by Orbital Sciences Corporation has 
spawned an investigation over an apparent violation of range safety 
rules.  A valid abort order from a NASA range safety officer to halt 
the mission was overridden and the Pegasus was launched in violation 
of range safety rules.  
   In the last few minutes of the Pegasus launch countdown, one of 
two abort command receivers aboard the Pegasus failed.  Such a failure 
typically scrubs a launch,and a NASA range safety officer at 
Wallops Island, VA issued a mission abort order about a minute 
before the scheduled Pegasus launch.  Somehow this command was 
overridden by the OSC launch team or the message was lost in the 
communications channels, and the Pegasus was launched despite the 
valid abort call. 
   Fortunately, the Pegasus functioned as expected, and the abort 
command receiver was not needed.  But this incident did spark an 
investigation since a valid abort order was given under agreed-to 
launch constraint rules, and was not obeyed. 
   Leading the investigation is the National Transportation Safety 
Board (NTSB) with support from NASA, OSC, and the Air Force.  This 
investigation marks the first time NTSB has taken the lead on an 
incident involving a space launch.  According to the NTSB, their 
investigation will take about 6 months, and is primarily looking at 
lines of authority, communications links and safety procedures used 
in the launch. 
  [Commentary: This is the first time that the NTSB has led an 
investigation into a space launch.  Their leadership was requested 
by the Department of Commerce's Office of Commercial Space 
Transportation, who had licensed the commercial launch.  
   At the time of writing this column, some of the initial 
investigations have been concluded, and some of the results are 
starting to leak out into the trade press.  Apparently, 3 or four 
different communications channels were in use during the test. After 
the abort destruct receiver stopped responding, the NASA test 
director and range controller in the Mission Control room at Wallops 
Island gave abort orders about a minute before the launch.  
According to the mission rules, this should have stopped the launch. 
Somehow, the OSC test conductor ordered the abort reversed, and the 
NASA communicator on the net relayed that order to the B-52 carrying 
the Pegasus at about 22 seconds before launch.  Differing 
explainations of exactly how this happened are proposed -- with the 
best set being that clear lines of communications and clear 
definition of the responsibilities of the mission control team, and 
understanding of the mission rules were not established before the 
launch.  
   As we see more and more commercial launches, more of these 
procedural issues are going to crop up and will have to be resolved.   
This case is interesting because it is the first time the NTSB has 
been called in to investigate a commercial launch problem (as they 
do with commercial aircraft problems).  
   I think this problem will turn out to be primarily problems with 
procedures and communications, and will be cleared up with issuance 
of guidelines on how launch communications should be set up and how 
specific lines of authority should be delineated.] 

7- ANOTHER PEGASUS COMPETITOR IS ANNOUNCED
   Tsniimach Enterprise in Russia announced it is marketing a new 
small space launch system, based upon converted ICBM components.  
Two versions of the launcher are being marketed: the "Aerokosmos" 
winged vehicle launched like the OSC Pegasus, and the "Severkosmos", 
launched from a mobile ground transporter.  The Aerokosmos is 
projected to deliver 900 kg to a 200 km circular orbit or 580 kg to 
an 800 km circular orbit, and the Severkosmos to be capable of 430 
kg to 200 km orbits and 225 kg to 800 km.  Also proposed to be used 
with these launch systems is a LEO data relay system called 
'Sineva'.  Tsniimach Enterprise is described as a ex-military 
establishment, focusing on aerodynamics and thermal protection of 
spacecraft and which has participated in the development of the 
Buran shuttle system,  They are located near the NPO Energia 
facility in Kaliningrad, outside of Moscow. 
   [Commentary: There's very little released information on this new 
venture.  My suspicion is it is another Russian enterprise looking 
for hard currency and trying to capitalize upon their in-house 
knowledge of ex-Soviet launch systems.  It adds to the list of numerous 
commercial space startups announced from the ex-Soviet Union. 
   This one's a little different in that they are offering variants 
of ex-Soviet ICBMs, but I can't identify any key customers being 
targeted or substantial financial backing.]

8- GEORGIA LAUNCH SITE DROPPED FROM PLANNING
   In late January, Georgia Tech Research Institute released the 
results of a preliminary study on the feasibility of a commercial 
rocket launching site in Camden County, Georgia at the old Kingsland 
Missile Test Launching Site on the Atlantic coast.  The preliminary 
study recommended the site not be pursued as a commercial launch 
site, stating reopening the site was not feasible due to projected 
low investment returns, plus environmental and other geographic 
considerations.  However, the report did say the site might be ideal 
for other aerospace uses, and recommended other potential uses. 
   [Commentary:  This should put the nails in the coffin of the 
Kingsland Commercial Launch Site.  While other sites are still 
proceeding with commercial launch site development plans, Kingsland 
found without a key customer to act as anchor tenant, and if 
substantial infrastructure had to be put in, then the expected 
returns were too low to justify the cost of development.  
   This might point out some key discriminators in judging the 
feasibility of a commercial launch site.  These include:
  - Is there an identified key customer to provide core usage 
sufficient to recover setup costs?
  - Is there a market advantage of using the site?
  - Can existing infrastructure be used or modified at the site?
  - Can financing be found at low enough cost to support the 
investment?  
   Other commercial launch site ventures -- including those at 
Woomera, Poker Flat, Cape York, White Sands, Alabama Off-Shore 
Platform, Hawaii, and Vandenberg have to also be judged against 
these criteria.  In my opinion, some of these ventures are flying 
on hope and speculation, and not on sound financial grounds.]

9- SPAIN'S CAPRICORNIA LAUNCHER STILL PROCEEDING
   In one of his last official acts, former President Bush 
authorized space technology transfer for several joint space 
ventures between US and other firms.  One of these was a proposed 
use of US technology by Spain to build a small booster.  With that 
regulatory impediment removed, the 3-stage Capricornia launch 
vehicle will start development later this year, planning for a first 
launch in the 1995/96 time period.  The Capricornia is described as 
a small 3-stage all solid booster designed to put 250-500 Kg into 
LEO.  Several launch sites are being examined for the system, 
including 2 on the Iberian peninsula and 1 on the Canary Islands.  
Originated by INTA in Spain, the project reports it has $ 30 M in 
development funding, and will use technology from Argentina's Condor 
launch vehicle as well as from the US. 
   [Commentary:  Several firms have identified a market opportunity 
in providing a small launcher for the European market.  Small 
payloads from European firms or organizations currently use either 
Ariane piggyback launches or the US/Italian Scout launcher.  
However, Ariane piggyback opportunities are limited, and the Scout 
program is being phased out (accompanied by some disarray in the 
Italian government and space industry regarding any follow-on 
system).  
   This has left an apparent niche for a new European small launch 
system.  Surprisingly enough, ESA has not supported development of 
such a system within the current space funding structure.  Studies 
have been performed by British Aerospace, Aerospatiale, Deutsche 
Aerospace, and Italian organizations, but with the exception of the 
Swedish/PacAstro system (reported below), I have not been able to 
find any other European development work with even a rumor of 
funding for hardware. 
   Also of interest is the linking of the Capricornia to the 
Argentinian Condor launcher.  There have been some interesting 
rumors surfacing out of Argentina over the past year about a space 
launcher/IRBM program funded under the military junta which ruled 
the country in the 1970's and early 1980's. 
   What is known is in Feb 1992, the Argentinian Air Force formally 
transferred control of the Condor 2 missile program to the new 
civilian Argentinian national space agency (Comison Nacional de 
Atividades Espaciales - CNAE).  The Condor 2 program was described 
as originating in 1983, expanding upon the smaller Condor 1 rocket 
program in collaboration with Egypt and with support of German 
firms.  The Condor 2 was also reportedly funded indirectly by Iraq 
in the mid-1980's.  Fairly large solid rocket motors were built and 
tested, but Argentinan development of a suitable guidance package 
lagged that of the propulsion system. 
   It should be noted CNAE is planning to launch its first 
scientific satellite in late 1994.  The US$ 9 M, 181 Kg, SAC-B 
satellite will study the Earth's upper atmosphere and includes 
cooperative experiments from Italy and the US. No launch vehicle has 
yet been selected, but OSC's Pegasus and the Russian Burlak Air 
launched rocket are reported to be strong contenders for this 
contract.] 

10- PACASTRO SIGNS LAUNCH RESERVATION WITH SWEDISH SPACE CORP
   PacAstro, a small launch firm in Herndon, Virginia announced in 
late February it had received a $6 M launch reservation contract 
from the Swedish Space Corp to launch a satellite on PacAstro's PA-2 
launch vehicle.   This will be performed as part of the Polar 
Satellite Service (PSS), a joint Norwegian Space Center/ Swedish 
Space Corp. program to upgrade the Andoya Rocket Range in Norway and 
offering small satellite launches into the polar regions.  According 
to PacAstro, PSS is also performing an $8 M upgrade of the Andoya 
launch facilities, including a new integration facility and a fully-
enclosed vertical assembly building for small launch vehicles like 
the PacAstro PA-2.  PacAstro has been chosen as "the main 
alternative rocket supplier" for the small satellite launch service 
to be offered by PSS from Andoya.  The date of the launch of the 
Swedish satellite was not specified. 
   [Commentary:  PacAstro has been trying to line up customers and 
funding for their launch vehicle for some time now.  The PA-2 is a 
small, two stage rocket fueled by RP-1 and Liquid Oxygen.  From 
PacAstro's literature, the engines designed for the PA-series 
rockets are built of "off the shelf" components based upon the Lunar 
MOdule Descent Engines built by TRW, and are capable of putting a 
225 Kg satellite into a 750 km circular polar orbit.  
   PacAstro is trying to arrange construction financing for its 
first three PA-2 vehicles, with a first launch planned for 1995, and 
2 orbital launches planned for 1996.  My records show PacAstro hired 
TRW to provide marketing support and systems design,  with primary 
engineering to be done by AeroAstro, a small satellite builder 
closely associated with PacAstro (headquartered in the same 
building).  The Swedish Space Corporation would supply engineering, 
launch operations, vehicle subsystems, and marketing support. 
Sumitomo Corp. of Tokyo, is a first round investor and sits on the 
board of directors.  
   PacAstro has gotten a first round financial package of at least 
$550 K  (Some sources place this of high as $1 M), but has been 
searching for about a year for the additional $20-30 M needed to 
design, build and launch their first set of vehicles. 
   The launch reservation from SSC can possibly be used to help 
bring some investors on board, but by my estimate, they will need 
much more than the single $6 M sale to put their venture into real 
hardware.] 

11- CHINA AND TAIWAN JOINT SATELLITE VENTURE REPORTED
    In early March, it was reported a joint satellite communications 
venture between a Taiwanese and mainland Chinese was in the works.  
As reported in the Taipei press, China Development Corp. (CDC), 
headquartered in Taiwam and with links to the ruling Nationalist 
Party, is planning to set up a joint venture in Hong Kong with China 
Great Wall Industry Corp. with the objective of launching a regional 
communications satellite. CDC would cover about 10% of the satellite 
system cost (US $10 M) in exchange for rights to 10% of the 
satellite's communications channels.  
   [Commentary:  This announcement came close on the heels of the 
release of Taiwanese plans for space development (released in mid 
January).   In those plans, the National Space Program Office of 
Taiwan will launch 3 satellites, starting with ROCSAT-1, a 400 Kg 
scientific spacecraft, planned for launch in 1997.  Two additional 
satellites are planned, both communications satellites.   TRW has 
been helping Taiwan plan this program, budgeted at T$13.6 B (US $530 
M) through 2006.  
   I haven't been able to establish any relationship between this 
venture and those of the NSPOT, but there might be a connection.  
While Taiwan has the financing to pursue several ventures, the 
current Taiwanese telecommunications market might not support two 
separate sastellite ventures. 
   The reported name for the Tiawanese/Chinese system is "Asiasat-
2", but I don't thinks this has any relationship with the existing 
Hong Kong-based "Asiasat" program involving Chinese, Hong Kong, and 
other Asian investors, other than using it as an organizational 
model.  There are some obvious advantages to pursuing such a joing 
venture -- it could provide excellent first-hand experience to 
Taiwan for a very low cost, which then can be used in later 
satellite ventures.  But there are internal political issues between 
Taiwanese and Chinese ventures, but putting any joint venture 
through a  Hong Kong intermediary corporation might allow it to 
proceed. 
   In any case, the East Asian satellite market is lighting up with 
substantially growth projected in space services and revenues.  This 
is just another indicator to add to the list.] 

12- SOUTH KOREA ANNOUNCES NATIONAL MOVE INTO SPACE TECHNOLOGIES
   South Korea's Trade, Industry and Resources Ministry recently 
announced plans to invest US$22 B in research and development and 
another US$17 B into manufacturing and research facilities for 
advanced aerospace technologies.  Space technologies have been 
specifically targeted as part of this program, beginning with 
manufacture and launch of an advanced multi-purpose satellite by 
1997.  The objective of this investment is to raise South Korea's 
aerospace technology to the level of the world's top 10 countries by 
2000.                                 
   [Commentary: South Korea has been quietly working to develop its 
national aerospace industry, specifically including space 
activities. I'm noting this as a flag that potential new players are 
coming into the commercial space market. 
   As part of their national effort, 2 national telecommunications 
satellites for Korea Telecom will be launched in April and Oct 1995 
on Delta. Designated Koreasat 1 and 2, the platforms will provide 
television and telephone service throughout the Korean Peninsula, 
southwestern Japan and portions of China bordering North Korea. 
   South Korea launched its first small satellite piggyback on 
Ariane in Aug 1992, called Uribyol-1 (Our Star) and costing about US 
$8.8 M.  Uribyol-2 is planned for piggyback launch in October of 
this year, again on Ariane, and will be entirely "made in Korea."  
Uribyol-3, projected for a 1995 launch, will be an environment-
monitoring micro-satellite. 
   This satellite may be the precursor to a series of small Earth 
observation satellites,  The KEOS (Korean Earth Observation System) 
project, which has been submitted for approval to the South Korean 
government, would use two or three 300-kg spacecraft equipped with 
optical and microwave sensors.
   South Korean press reports claim there is also a parallel 
military effort to establish the capabilities for building and 
launching small military satellites by 2001.  Supposedly a 
government panel had been established to oversee such an effort, 
funded at US $ 500 M between 1993 and 2001, in anticipation of an  
expected pullout of U.S. intelligence-gathering systems from the 
Korean peninsula.       
   In conjunction with all of these reported efforts, South Korean 
is also pursuing production work either as off-sets to existing 
aerospace technology contracts (for example, McDonnell Douglas is 
offsetting production of some Delta parts to South Korean firms as 
part of the Koreasat launch contracts), or for production of 
consumer space items (among other products, South Korea exports 
satellite receiver television setups to Japan, and Samsung has 
announced teaming for production of OSC's Orbcomm user terminals.).  
   This looks like a very aggressive push into space technologies.  
Considering that East Asia is currently the fastest growing sector 
for commercial space services (primarily for telecommunications), a 
South Korean push into space technologies may change the composition 
of commercial space market there over the next decade.] 

13- SPACE TECHNOLOGY INDEXES THROUGH MARCH
   As announced in the last CSN/STI, each issue will give the 
results of stock indexes and portfolios regarding space stocks and 
investments.  The table below summarizes results to the end of 
March.  The Space Technology Index did quite a bit better than the 
market as a whole, as represented by the S&P 500 index.  Since 90+% 
of the values included in the index are US firms, this represents a 
general increase in the market value of space-related firms.  The 
increase in the first quarter is more than in all of 1992 -- which 
is a very promising sign, although future months may reverse this 
trend. The Commercial Space Technology Index has also done quite 
well, but the Pure Play portfolio -- consisting of stocks of firms 
which are pure plays in space technologies -- has also surpassed its 
results in all of 1993.  We'll keep an eye on these ....

   INDEX RESULTS THROUGH MARCH
                           Beginning  Beginning      1 Jan 93 to
                           1992       1993           31 Mar 1993
                           -------    --------       --------
   S&P 500                 416        436  (+4.7%)   452  (+3.7%)
   Space Tech Index        267        304 (+13.6%)   373 (+22.7%)
   Comm'l Space Tech Index 167        194 (+16.3%)   222 (+14.2%)
   Space Tech Pure Plays   147        169 (+15.4%)   197 (+16.2%)


FINAL NOTES - 
    What?  This column's already full?  And I still have bunches of 
commercial space developments to report on.  As I said at the start 
of this, column there's been a lot of interesting happenings - but 
I'll have to put them into the next issue.  
   Looking ahead, I've got several articles in the works on new 
happenings with Iridium and the LEO communications satellite market, 
more news on international launchers appearing (and disappearing) on 
the market, new international commercial space ventures,  and other 
interesting developments. 
   And as always, I hope you folks find this stuff useful and 
interesting -- Any and all comments are welcome. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------
Wales Larrison                          Space Technology Investor  
"Felicitas multos habet amicos"             P.O. Box 2452 
                                        Seal Beach, CA 90740-1452

========== END RAW ============================

Preprocessed:
============ START PREPROCESSED =================
 commerci space news sender newtout   commerci
space news space technolog investor number  number
twenti two irregular seri commerci space activ
commentari includ thought develop  sigh usual i'v
gotten behind get column written plead exig
current dynam space biz column put togeth lunch
hour hous quiet night data quick build there lot
stuff go i'v compli lot inform happen sinc last
column i'm go work keep one readabl length fun
content commerci space sale flatten delta win two
key launch contract commerci remot sens ventur get
doc ahead invest firm call gd space biz still good
invest arian predict dip launch demand ntsb
investig pegasus launch abort abort anoth pegasus
competitor announc georgia launch site drop plan
spain capricornia launcher still proceed pacastro
sign launch reserv swedish space corp china taiwan
joint satellit ventur report south korea announc
nation move space technolog space technolog index
march final note  articl  commerci space sale
flatten depart commerc project commerci space sale
remain flat current data show percent growth
publish industri outlook releas januari revenu
space busi current project contrast previous year
commerci space sale shown doubl digit growth rate
year project result driven satellit manufactur
industri sale project drop satellit worth satellit
worth industri outlook also project commerci
launcher face flat demand come year predict revenu
increas percent futur sale advers affect downward
revis depart defens launch plan offset flat launch
revenu satellit deliveri revenu fix mobil satellit
servic project increas primarili driven increas
revenu broadcast cabl network similar remot sens
product sale project increas  commerci space
revenu commerci satellit satellit servic fix mobil
satellit ground equip mobil equip commerci launch
remot sens data servic privat micrograv research
lab  total annual revenu revis data estim data
commentari first look commerci space industri
expect general bad report bad news concentr
satellit manufactur area chang satellit worth
apiec substanti influenc annual project look
forward sever year market sector retain strong
sale firm success regain intern market share
satellit busi furthermor sale satellit ground
equip next revis data expect releas mid year data
mobil satellit ground equip sale includ item gps
receiv portabl satellit termin appear miss januari
data set doc usual publish list space busi indic
mid year next revis commerci space revenu releas
expect revis revenu easili top mobil satellit
ground equip ad back number year show overal
market growth look beyond year data futur market
look quit promis doc project satellit servic
revenu could top new mobil satellit servic direct
broadcast implement plan mobil satellit station
sale expect continu growth per year mid number
somewhat pessimist near term market growth agre
trend substanti growth commerci space sale least
next year pessim due conserv assumpt market captur
growth leo communic satellit direct broadcast
servic don't believ current player yet born leo
communic satellit market yet proven direct
broadcast market financi success sale growth
explos current project also note year doc data
first releas show revenu privat fund micrograv
research facil shown janurari data primarili
spacehab modul plan launch april space shuttl also
hidden number project first sale comet orbit
launch recoveri experi modul  delta win two key
launch contract mcdonnel dougla corpor build
market delta launch vehicl two import launch
contract motorola inc announc mid februari select
delta launch satellit satellit iridium leo
communic constel mid april mcdonnel dougla award
usaf medium launch vehicl iii contract launch
servic contract motorola iridium constel launch
launch least iridium satellit anoth satellit
contract launch khrunichev enterpris russian
proton vehicl launch satellit plan delta launch
time provid least launch addit satellit iridium
constel plan orbit spare also launch delta
although detail launch servic contract report
negoti yet final usaf mlv contract also went mdc
bid variant delta launcher contract initi worth
million establish set launch option launch
encompass launch launch deploy next generat usaf
global posit system block iir navig satellit plus
program first option meet usaf launch option
expect exercis year usaf expect request launch
delta per year least year contract usaf also
request launch demand servic mdc time period
launch occur within day request commentari two
contract fulfil provid excel busi base mdc delta
launch program turn centuri combin two contract
potenti launch worth mdc sustain core busi base
year contract intern commerci payload well nasa
medium elv class payload add busi base keep mdc
viabl commer launch compani howev note risk
element contract motorola iridium leo communic
constel yet receiv feder communic commiss licens
oper motorola line financ financi partner iridium
ventur without approv financi back iridium launch
hope uncertainti settl year similar usaf mlv iii
program target sever congression action slow
product gps block iir satellit delet fund mlv iii
program favor usaf nls spacelift program time
appear mlv iii contract execut futur fund mlv iii
usaf commerci launch contract reconsid part nation
space launch strategi review opinion express
within administr congress propos cancel elv upgrad
program includ mlv program favor propos spacelift
program opinion weight year budget deliber
particular dod fund difficult find shrink defens
budget  commerci remot sens ventur get doc ahead
first commerci licens oper remot sens satellit
approv earli februari depart commerc offic space
commerc licens grant worldview imag corpor oakland
california build oper pair leo imag satellit
provid multi spectral imag earth commentari littl
data releas ventur worldview doc announc oper
construct licens report request worldview industri
specul identifi new ventur star war spinoff use
sdi type technolog provid digit earth sens data
heavili integr digit gis databas remot sens gis
user probabl custom servic includ explor geologist
agricultur planner urban planner noteworthi first
commerci ventur land remot sens polici act act
pass last novemb provid remot sens data gather
privat remot sens craft sold user differ price
prior act remot sens data satellit sold user price
privat remot sens ventur sell govern set landsat
data price rumor sever potenti commerci remot sens
ventur work way system differ stage develop think
larg landsat spot satellit system provid major
satellit remot sens data market next decad
contrast larg govern sponsor remot sens system
smaller market ventur worldview other exploit
market nich use innov technolog believ find profit
margin predict interest ventur appear next year
invest firm call gd space biz still good invest
wall street invest hous morgan stanley think
general dynam space system divis could still
moneymak despit fail last atlas launch recent
analyst report morgan stanley said ever convinc
compani return atlas histor plus success rate
becom high profit cash generat unit base upon
discuss gd corpor manag morgan stanley project
atlas problem clear unit could see earn per year
per year base upon gd project captur atlas launch
per year world market commentari three failur row
launch system hurt general dynam space system
divis sinc restructur keep profit core busi mani
market pundit specul gd space busi might next sold
morgan stanley report indic gd space system divis
potenti moneymak despit current problem get act
togeth sale project probabl generat loss captur
project share space launch market manag clean
reliabl atlas launcher could generat healthi
profit sale demonstr atlas centaur program back
track divis continu show substanti loss respons
sell rumor opinion oper realli good candid takeov
quick profit takeov current set corpor division
manag replac anoth set outsid firm ssd case get
divis back track manag team concentr hard technic
problem atlas centaur well sell atlas servic indic
anoth firm experi rocket launch oper could find
talent hous abl convinc custom buy launch servic
optim firm substanti liquid rocket experi experi
market space technolog intern well candid might
trw rockwel lockhe martin possibl mcdonnel dougla
boe firm cash flow problem mdc substanti busi
contract boe mdc involv launch firm lockhe taken
substanti debt martin come purchas price divis big
chunk chang compani  arian predict dip launch
demand arianespac oper arian launch system project
dip launch demand late earli februari arianespac
releas annual market survey detail project space
transport market next decad short run arianespac
expect retain domin posit sustain major share
launch market intern commerci launch plan arian
hold contract general dynam atlas vehicl hold
contract mcdonnel dougla delta hold great wall
long march vehicl hold launch contract three
quarter futur launch contract arian compet project
come communic satellit remain split weather earth
observ scientif satellit futur telecommun demand
growth predict come asia pacif region arianespac
expect current market consolid individu satellit
oper region nation group continu group invest
heavier satellit larger communic payload carri
transpond arianespac predict averag mass
telecommun satellit increas today averag level geo
demand commerci launch servic expect remain strong
next three year second half decad arianespac
predict demand decreas arianespac base predict
upon match satellit transpond demand suppli
particular new data compress techniqu appear could
doubl tripl transpond capac use exist near term
transpond one signific possibl chang market
identifi arriv new launch vehicl includ russian
launch system arianespac predict long term
investor purchas launch servic look best trade
launch servic qualiti price russian new launch
servic prove capabl servic qualiti market penetr
minim commentari arian releas market survey annual
report prior market survey past issu csn sti
compar two survey aren't outstand differ number
notabl chang consider new data compress techniqu
reduc demand new physic transpond orbit note
contrast predict demand space base communic
transpond appear remain strong fiber optic line
make substanti inroad establish point point
telecommun market grow demand telecommun servic
world wide point multipoint broadcast servic
prevent decreas space transpond demand fiberopt
cabl provid higher capabl servic establish point
establish point establish fiberopt link necessari
instal cabl point improv network solut instal larg
network distribut fiberopt link cost million
billion dollar broadcast servic exist ground
network structur satellit still offer cost effect
solut new servic requir new region cheaper instal
small satellit link cost ten thousand dollar tie
exist global satellit network allow rapid growth
new satellit servic kept demand high replac market
fiberopt grow well sinc demand grow point servic
becom cost effect later instal fiberopt link handl
increas traffic sinc telecommun data transfer
market still grow rapid satellit market project
remain rosi satellit also get longer orbit lifetim
current generat satellit get guarante year orbit
servic contrast year servic last generat satellit
cut back launch demand satellit owner reschedul
replac satellit launch longer interv last note
arianespac didn't flag year look like space
transport market rather suppli exist launch system
near term annual commerci launch demand medium
size satellit per year suppli side arian capabl
launch dozen medium size satellit year delta
capabl per year atlas capabl long march japan
vehicl russia proton capabl system zenit soyuz
anoth medium launch per year that lot capabl small
market expect competit intensifi commerci launch
ntsb investig pegasus launch abort abort pegasus
launch orbit scienc corpor spawn investig appar
violat rang safeti rule valid abort order nasa
rang safeti offic halt mission overridden pegasus
launch violat rang safeti rule last minut pegasus
launch countdown one two abort command receiv
aboard pegasus fail failur typic scrub launch nasa
rang safeti offic wallop island issu mission abort
order minut schedul pegasus launch somehow command
overridden osc launch team messag lost communic
channel pegasus launch despit valid abort call
fortun pegasus function expect abort command
receiv need incid spark investig sinc valid abort
order given agre launch constraint rule obey lead
investig nation transport safeti board ntsb
support nasa osc air forc investig mark first time
ntsb taken lead incid involv space launch accord
ntsb investig take month primarili look line
author communic link safeti procedur use launch
commentari first time ntsb led investig space
launch leadership request depart commerc offic
commerci space transport licens commerci launch
time write column initi investig conclud result
start leak trade press appar four differ communic
channel use test abort destruct receiv stop
respond nasa test director rang control mission
control room wallop island gave abort order minut
launch accord mission rule stop launch somehow osc
test conductor order abort revers nasa communic
net relay order carri pegasus second launch differ
explain exact happen propos best set clear line
communic clear definit respons mission control
team understand mission rule establish launch see
commerci launch procedur issu go crop resolv case
interest first time ntsb call investig commerci
launch problem commerci aircraft problem think
problem turn primarili problem procedur communic
clear issuanc guidelin launch communic set specif
line author delin  anoth pegasus competitor
announc tsniimach enterpris russia announc market
new small space launch system base upon convert
icbm compon two version launcher market aerokosmo
wing vehicl launch like osc pegasus severkosmo
launch mobil ground transport aerokosmo project
deliv circular orbit circular orbit severkosmo
capabl orbit also propos use launch system leo
data relay system call sineva tsniimach enterpris
describ militari establish focus aerodynam thermal
protect spacecraft particip develop buran shuttl
system locat near npo energia facil kaliningrad
outsid moscow commentari there littl releas inform
new ventur suspicion anoth russian enterpris look
hard currenc tri capit upon hous knowledg soviet
launch system add list numer commerci space
startup announc soviet union one littl differ
offer variant soviet icbm can't identifi key
custom target substanti financi back  georgia
launch site drop plan late januari georgia tech
research institut releas result preliminari studi
feasibl commerci rocket launch site camden counti
georgia old kingsland missil test launch site
atlant coast preliminari studi recommend site
pursu commerci launch site state reopen site
feasibl due project low invest return plus
environment geograph consider howev report say
site might ideal aerospac use recommend potenti
use commentari put nail coffin kingsland commerci
launch site site still proceed commerci launch
site develop plan kingsland found without key
custom act anchor tenant substanti infrastructur
put expect return low justifi cost develop might
point key discrimin judg feasibl commerci launch
site includ identifi key custom provid core usag
suffici recov setup cost market advantag use site
exist infrastructur use modifi site financ found
low enough cost support invest commerci launch
site ventur includ woomera poker flat cape york
white sand alabama shore platform hawaii
vandenberg also judg criteria opinion ventur fli
hope specul sound financi ground  spain
capricornia launcher still proceed one last offici
act former presid bush author space technolog
transfer sever joint space ventur firm one propos
use technolog spain build small booster regulatori
impedi remov stage capricornia launch vehicl start
develop later year plan first launch time period
capricornia describ small stage solid booster
design put leo sever launch site examin system
includ iberian peninsula canari island origin inta
spain project report develop fund use technolog
argentina condor launch vehicl well commentari
sever firm identifi market opportun provid small
launcher european market small payload european
firm organ current use either arian piggyback
launch italian scout launcher howev arian
piggyback opportun limit scout program phase
accompani disarray italian govern space industri
regard follow system left appar nich new european
small launch system surpris enough esa support
develop system within current space fund structur
studi perform british aerospac aerospatial deutsch
aerospac italian organ except swedish pacastro
system report abl find european develop work even
rumor fund hardwar also interest link capricornia
argentinian condor launcher interest rumor surfac
argentina past year space launcher irbm program
fund militari junta rule countri earli known
argentinian air forc formal transfer control
condor missil program new civilian argentinian
nation space agenc comison nacion atividad
espacial cnae condor program describ origin expand
upon smaller condor rocket program collabor egypt
support german firm condor also report fund
indirect iraq mid fair larg solid rocket motor
built test argentinan develop suitabl guidanc
packag lag propuls system note cnae plan launch
first scientif satellit late sac satellit studi
earth upper atmospher includ cooper experi itali
launch vehicl yet select osc pegasus russian
burlak air launch rocket report strong contend
contract  pacastro sign launch reserv swedish
space corp pacastro small launch firm herndon
virginia announc late februari receiv launch
reserv contract swedish space corp launch satellit
pacastro launch vehicl perform part polar satellit
servic pss joint norwegian space center swedish
space corp program upgrad andoya rocket rang
norway offer small satellit launch polar region
accord pacastro pss also perform upgrad andoya
launch facil includ new integr facil fulli enclos
vertic assembl build small launch vehicl like
pacastro pacastro chosen main altern rocket
supplier small satellit launch servic offer pss
andoya date launch swedish satellit specifi
commentari pacastro tri line custom fund launch
vehicl time small two stage rocket fuel liquid
oxygen pacastro literatur engin design seri rocket
built shelf compon base upon lunar modul descent
engin built trw capabl put satellit circular polar
orbit pacastro tri arrang construct financ first
three vehicl first launch plan orbit launch plan
record show pacastro hire trw provid market
support system design primari engin done aeroastro
small satellit builder close associ pacastro
headquart build swedish space corpor suppli engin
launch oper vehicl subsystem market support
sumitomo corp tokyo first round investor sit board
director pacastro gotten first round financi
packag least sourc place high search year addit
need design build launch first set vehicl launch
reserv ssc possibl use help bring investor board
estim need much singl sale put ventur real hardwar
china taiwan joint satellit ventur report earli
march report joint satellit communic ventur
taiwanes mainland chines work report taipei press
china develop corp cdc headquart taiwam link rule
nationalist parti plan set joint ventur hong kong
china great wall industri corp object launch
region communic satellit cdc cover satellit system
cost exchang right satellit communic channel
commentari announc came close heel releas taiwanes
plan space develop releas mid januari plan nation
space program offic taiwan launch satellit start
rocsat scientif spacecraft plan launch two addit
satellit plan communic satellit trw help taiwan
plan program budget  haven't abl establish
relationship ventur nspot might connect taiwan
financ pursu sever ventur current taiwanes
telecommun market might support two separ
sastellit ventur report name tiawanes chines
system asiasat don't think relationship exist hong
kong base asiasat program involv chines hong kong
asian investor use organiz model obvious advantag
pursu jo ventur could provid excel first hand
experi taiwan low cost use later satellit ventur
intern polit issu taiwanes chines ventur put joint
ventur hong kong intermediari corpor might allow
proceed case east asian satellit market light
substanti growth project space servic revenu anoth
indic add list  south korea announc nation move
space technolog south korea trade industri resourc
ministri recent announc plan invest research
develop anoth manufactur research facil advanc
aerospac technolog space technolog specif target
part program begin manufactur launch advanc multi
purpos satellit object invest rais south korea
aerospac technolog level world top countri
commentari south korea quiet work develop nation
aerospac industri specif includ space activ i'm
note flag potenti new player come commerci space
market part nation effort nation telecommun
satellit korea telecom launch april delta design
koreasat platform provid televis telephon servic
throughout korean peninsula southwestern japan
portion china border north korea south korea
launch first small satellit piggyback arian call
uribyol star cost uribyol plan piggyback launch
octob year arian entir made korea uribyol project
launch environ monitor micro satellit satellit
precursor seri small earth observ satellit keo
korean earth observ system project submit approv
south korean govern use two three spacecraft equip
optic microwav sensor south korean press report
claim also parallel militari effort establish
capabl build launch small militari satellit suppos
govern panel establish overse effort fund anticip
expect pullout intellig gather system korean
peninsula conjunct report effort south korean also
pursu product work either set exist aerospac
technolog contract exampl mcdonnel dougla offset
product delta part south korean firm part koreasat
launch contract product consum space item among
product south korea export satellit receiv televis
setup japan samsung announc team product osc
orbcomm user termin look like aggress push space
technolog consid east asia current fastest grow
sector commerci space servic primarili telecommun
south korean push space technolog chang composit
commerci space market next decad  space technolog
index march announc last csn sti issu give result
stock index portfolio regard space stock invest
tabl summar result end march space technolog index
quit bit better market whole repres index sinc
valu includ index firm repres general increas
market valu space relat firm increas first quarter
promis sign although futur month revers trend
commerci space technolog index also done quit well
pure play portfolio consist stock firm pure play
space technolog also surpass result we'll keep eye
index result march begin begin    space tech index
comm'l space tech index space tech pure play
final note column alreadi full still bunch
commerci space develop report said start column
there lot interest happen i'll put next issu look
ahead i'v got sever articl work new happen iridium
leo communic satellit market news intern launcher
appear disappear market new intern commerci space
ventur interest develop alway hope folk find stuff
use interest comment welcom   wale larrison space
technolog investor felicita multo habet amico box
seal beach
========== END PREPROCESSED =====================


Feature vector (sorted, non-zero values only):
Term, Index, Value:
launch, 5147, 0.529825811513
satellit, 7632, 0.346819049927
space, 8164, 0.209806474286
market, 5514, 0.207866035087
commerci, 1940, 0.184212757927
ventur, 9461, 0.160085749039
contract, 2095, 0.132064498447
servic, 7813, 0.12925281937
firm, 3499, 0.101421153083
communic, 1950, 0.1000139843
project, 6909, 0.0940186866914
sale, 7590, 0.0938107110496
demand, 2514, 0.090807524121
pegasus, 6507, 0.0900856436471
commentari, 1937, 0.0893848942775
plan, 6660, 0.0868995600982
technolog, 8743, 0.0845671169985
year, 9943, 0.0840315188555
vehicl, 9449, 0.082497872504
revenu, 7354, 0.080477985972
remot, 7271, 0.0798421213947
data, 2385, 0.0787976406708
korea, 5063, 0.0767464057928
arian, 633, 0.0766956423556
report, 7291, 0.0766185918677
abort, 187, 0.0761695606295
growth, 4068, 0.0746635953003
delta, 2509, 0.0737680504733
arianespac, 634, 0.0690717652135
small, 8054, 0.0671021167589
site, 7994, 0.0668134136361
south, 8154, 0.0653804673098
atlas, 751, 0.0637677487707
launcher, 5148, 0.0637318589199
sens, 7788, 0.063326288122
korean, 5064, 0.0632058697959
usaf, 9359, 0.0610883961548
announc, 524, 0.0604434063324
develop, 2588, 0.0603776048689
telecommun, 8757, 0.0599192722304
program, 6905, 0.0597560001324
invest, 4744, 0.0581083793165
mdc, 5591, 0.0573455293939
substanti, 8503, 0.0573237937589
index, 4596, 0.0564670427707
establish, 3198, 0.0534161906594
new, 6023, 0.0531264953356
investig, 4745, 0.0528257993786
mobil, 5802, 0.0519689184992
expect, 3290, 0.051049937846
fund, 3723, 0.0505952750916
transpond, 9064, 0.0503889698791
swedish, 8627, 0.0495535903318
mlv, 5797, 0.0491533109091
gd, 3801, 0.0491533109091
condor, 2020, 0.0491533109091
releas, 7253, 0.0487251495582
current, 2299, 0.047725182201
leo, 5216, 0.04743281453
taiwan, 8677, 0.0474044023469
rocket, 7447, 0.0471283956896
osc, 6307, 0.0460478434757
predict, 6816, 0.0458987451931
capabl, 1498, 0.0454273958493
provid, 6949, 0.0449766675733
industri, 4608, 0.044019497009
busi, 1424, 0.0420315429459
includ, 4579, 0.0418372357336
joint, 4882, 0.0417616512696
aerospac, 304, 0.0405566374945
orbit, 6280, 0.0403400617724
use, 9363, 0.0402792319993
nation, 5962, 0.0398897146195
link, 5289, 0.0397212579472
cost, 2169, 0.0384968332899
oper, 6261, 0.0381787682848
mid, 5698, 0.0381386059307
march, 5504, 0.0379827199065
column, 1915, 0.0379319578518
corp, 2153, 0.0376808646247
financi, 3484, 0.0376201300032
investor, 4746, 0.036770473799
increas, 4590, 0.0365660529953
set, 7815, 0.0362918293967
china, 1709, 0.0359921213422
doc, 2783, 0.0357957010883
corpor, 2154, 0.0357521669741
mcdonnel, 5574, 0.0331570563615
hong, 4363, 0.0327688739394
build, 1378, 0.0327185334101
custom, 2311, 0.0321725329206
annual, 526, 0.0318838743853
ground, 4061, 0.0318639494952
safeti, 7579, 0.0318112795135
base, 923, 0.0317088347449
broadcast, 1324, 0.0316954796272
revis, 7359, 0.0316099648765
spain, 8178, 0.0316029348979
piggyback, 6626, 0.0316029348979
intern, 4716, 0.0315458455726
receiv, 7167, 0.0310069133552
equip, 3161, 0.0306447145493
kong, 5060, 0.0299596361152
sever, 7823, 0.0299174550233
region, 7228, 0.0298297509069
product, 6896, 0.0296945975549
rule, 7537, 0.0295993943995
iii, 4502, 0.0294677332321
anoth, 533, 0.0293899727371
financ, 3483, 0.0293348829134
commerc, 1939, 0.0293348829134
note, 6118, 0.0292455886272
medium, 5614, 0.0291298686034
dougla, 2837, 0.0291298686034
primarili, 6864, 0.0288131347327
licens, 5254, 0.0288131347327
constel, 2068, 0.0287936970738
chines, 1711, 0.0287936970738
divis, 2767, 0.028147685508
key, 4994, 0.0278969567688
result, 7332, 0.0275236267962
stanley, 8322, 0.0275030443931
rang, 7094, 0.0274816228909
identifi, 4486, 0.0274721779417
transport, 9065, 0.0272418613791
act, 249, 0.027146897425
profit, 6903, 0.0269149033033
januari, 4824, 0.026825995324
grow, 4066, 0.0268104441005
generat, 3819, 0.0263351186656
pursu, 6995, 0.0262460257102
februari, 3423, 0.0259844592496
russian, 7551, 0.0258695839824
enterpris, 3126, 0.0257387553277
futur, 3737, 0.0256614437562
motorola, 5883, 0.0255070995083
problem, 6887, 0.0255013672673
experi, 3295, 0.0254525121899
exist, 3283, 0.0254305006763
morgan, 5861, 0.0252879719012
look, 5341, 0.0252858877931
issu, 4793, 0.0247914893354
appear, 580, 0.024718243748
argentinian, 626, 0.0245766554545
facil, 3348, 0.0244552761161
support, 8576, 0.0244278231496
contrast, 2101, 0.0243411604668
potenti, 6774, 0.0242640801482
tech, 8736, 0.0241757140879
mission, 5772, 0.0240305837618
request, 7301, 0.0240198838732
rumor, 7541, 0.0238638007255
remain, 7264, 0.0237303140989
pss, 6965, 0.0237022011735
dip, 2664, 0.0237022011735
biz, 1130, 0.0237022011735
price, 6857, 0.0235641978448
network, 6018, 0.02345640459
flat, 3526, 0.0233038948828
survey, 8597, 0.0231752214254
decad, 2432, 0.0231752214254
georgia, 3848, 0.0230505077861
worth, 9850, 0.0229493725966
point, 6710, 0.0228797129037
nasa, 5956, 0.0228790020199
instal, 4679, 0.0228120346842
manufactur, 5494, 0.0226978616841
offic, 6206, 0.0224446386716
reserv, 7309, 0.0223734587171
european, 3222, 0.0220731084823
proceed, 6889, 0.0219777423534
time, 8936, 0.0216668510451
order, 6281, 0.0214902490211
propos, 6933, 0.0212793543079
earth, 2956, 0.0211773509656
govern, 3966, 0.021142424571
dynam, 2942, 0.0211303197515
stock, 8402, 0.0209169933697
test, 8812, 0.0208154664953
suppli, 8574, 0.0206275500618
italian, 4796, 0.0206272832948
stage, 8302, 0.0205605588924
line, 5285, 0.0201508391322
payload, 6477, 0.0201202796794
work, 9833, 0.0200936299649
militari, 5715, 0.0200611125924
number, 6156, 0.019768157045
privat, 6879, 0.019723177481
design, 2564, 0.0196850007693
cabl, 1442, 0.0196845192826
hous, 4396, 0.0196694962528
general, 3818, 0.0195599057259
research, 7307, 0.0194863050341
island, 4781, 0.0193040664958
depart, 2535, 0.0190295352527
polar, 6716, 0.0189659789259
effort, 3007, 0.0189394676911
differ, 2633, 0.0187191839524
late, 5139, 0.0185979711792
sinc, 7977, 0.0185321134935
circular, 1768, 0.0183852368995
feasibl, 3419, 0.0182558703501
chang, 1650, 0.0182023096241
approv, 591, 0.018131785566
strong, 8456, 0.0179557109373
offer, 6203, 0.0177846782398
hold, 4341, 0.017718236203
upgrad, 9337, 0.0176806399392
indic, 4600, 0.0176528658588
sold, 8109, 0.0175775909145
user, 9366, 0.0174939092707
soviet, 8161, 0.0174779211621
studi, 8469, 0.0174320321378
procedur, 6888, 0.0172878808396
channel, 1652, 0.0171971381277
control, 2107, 0.0169139396568
target, 8704, 0.0168590505577
earli, 2951, 0.016807278936
low, 5368, 0.016703353409
term, 8795, 0.0166523731962
japan, 4825, 0.0164134265585
captur, 1509, 0.0164134265585
near, 5982, 0.0164066692744
takeov, 8680, 0.0163844369697
transfer, 9052, 0.0163451168274
despit, 2570, 0.0162783085314
modul, 5815, 0.0162129370848
specul, 8214, 0.0159646640406
core, 2140, 0.0158477398136
engin, 3109, 0.0158092542772
portfolio, 6751, 0.015801467449
planner, 6669, 0.015801467449
csn, 2276, 0.015801467449
pure, 6990, 0.0157351471229
valid, 9411, 0.0155737115711
budget, 1367, 0.0155737115711
clear, 1803, 0.0155502602531
manag, 5472, 0.0154737886735
wall, 9619, 0.0153709927939
tsniimach, 9134, 0.0153492811586
outlook, 6328, 0.0153492811586
nich, 6049, 0.0153492811586
share, 7855, 0.0152273603211
opinion, 6266, 0.015181563146
larg, 5124, 0.0150090744135
trade, 9033, 0.015002097645
asian, 686, 0.0149798180576
ahead, 342, 0.0147521221896
option, 6276, 0.0147123875701
drop, 2878, 0.0147123875701
come, 1923, 0.0146907623439
replac, 7288, 0.0146731656697
wallop, 9624, 0.0146674414567
micrograv, 5686, 0.0146674414567
competitor, 1971, 0.0146674414567
digit, 2642, 0.0146344434249
press, 6841, 0.0145962082653
plus, 6700, 0.0145962082653
board, 1186, 0.0145962082653
sell, 7778, 0.0144843064839
spacelift, 8171, 0.0143968485369
scientif, 7693, 0.0143763783969
air, 357, 0.0143064981904
happen, 4159, 0.014284245177
variant, 9429, 0.0141581686662
flatten, 3527, 0.0141581686662
elv, 3056, 0.0141581686662
asia, 685, 0.0141581686662
appar, 577, 0.0141060087167
minut, 5747, 0.0140420136139
news, 6031, 0.0139980411118
infrastructur, 4641, 0.0139446622465
gis, 3884, 0.0139446622465
sign, 7946, 0.0138280802655
addit, 263, 0.0137987113886
retain, 7337, 0.0137515221965
icbm, 4474, 0.0137515221965
accord, 219, 0.0136559783551
landsat, 5108, 0.0135751991455
spacecraft, 8166, 0.0135464293781
success, 8513, 0.0134931007276
begin, 994, 0.0134931007276
team, 8732, 0.0134568552722
preliminari, 6824, 0.013412997662
command, 1933, 0.0133385086799
built, 1381, 0.0133134908011
lockhe, 5325, 0.0132628225446
gps, 3972, 0.0132628225446
setup, 7819, 0.0131230128551
scout, 7714, 0.0131230128551
cash, 1542, 0.0131230128551
boe, 1196, 0.0131230128551
describ, 2556, 0.0130971394627
add, 260, 0.0130510832012
return, 7346, 0.0129832813914
trend, 9084, 0.0128693776639
quiet, 7040, 0.0128693776639
headquart, 4219, 0.0128693776639
centaur, 1604, 0.0128693776639
continu, 2092, 0.0128307218781
start, 8334, 0.0128288137347
sector, 7760, 0.0127535497541
offset, 6209, 0.0127535497541
later, 5140, 0.0127468640051
involv, 4750, 0.0127468640051
lot, 5356, 0.0126456563
observ, 6179, 0.0126451938215
compani, 1958, 0.0126451938215
proton, 6944, 0.0126439859506
april, 595, 0.0126252615854
relay, 7252, 0.0125400433344
flag, 3515, 0.0125400433344
author, 796, 0.0124703411748
sustain, 8608, 0.0124411731532
seri, 7805, 0.0123957446677
televis, 8765, 0.0123469032844
liquid, 5294, 0.0123469032844
perform, 6539, 0.0123409746254
russia, 7550, 0.0121705802334
rapid, 7100, 0.0121705802334
missil, 5771, 0.0121705802334
decreas, 2456, 0.0121705802334
driven, 2875, 0.012087857044
director, 2668, 0.012087857044
specif, 8203, 0.0120644517951
final, 3482, 0.0119350852457
violat, 9526, 0.0119319003628
quarter, 7027, 0.0118582036325
revers, 7356, 0.0117870932928
percent, 6533, 0.0117870932928
concentr, 2001, 0.0117870932928
gather, 3792, 0.0116519474414
direct, 2667, 0.0116482549959
booster, 1225, 0.0115252538931
optic, 6273, 0.0114647587518
incid, 4575, 0.0114060173421
candid, 1489, 0.0114060173421
termin, 8796, 0.0112934085541
prior, 6874, 0.0112934085541
round, 7494, 0.0112393670385
relationship, 7248, 0.0112393670385
global, 3904, 0.0112393670385
martin, 5523, 0.0111354244223
quit, 7043, 0.0111327210259
list, 5298, 0.0111327210259
abl, 180, 0.0111205866581
failur, 3361, 0.0110365542411
purchas, 6988, 0.0109422843724
multi, 5917, 0.0109422843724
estim, 3201, 0.0108967445516
hope, 4372, 0.0108651983131
push, 6996, 0.0108522056876
item, 4798, 0.0108522056876
shown, 7918, 0.0108086247232
favor, 3410, 0.0107241776402
block, 1163, 0.0107241776402
smaller, 8055, 0.0106431093604
opportun, 6268, 0.0106037598378
case, 1540, 0.0105684110403
integr, 4694, 0.0105272814507
compress, 1986, 0.0104900980819
howev, 4406, 0.0104788566221
dollar, 2802, 0.0104535847204
compon, 1980, 0.0104535847204
techniqu, 8740, 0.0103824743807
recommend, 7178, 0.0102802794462
platform, 6676, 0.0102802794462
construct, 2074, 0.0102802794462
high, 4292, 0.0102796191515
littl, 5308, 0.0102160067082
imag, 4512, 0.0101891465471
gotten, 3962, 0.0101829918006
world, 9841, 0.0101802456473
track, 9030, 0.0100305562962
judg, 4920, 0.0100305562962
play, 6681, 0.010024331723
solut, 8118, 0.01000139843
fix, 3511, 0.00997265416453
possibl, 6765, 0.00996579460243
solid, 8115, 0.00991636063523
advantag, 286, 0.00988878964205
initi, 4647, 0.00983474812641
countri, 2186, 0.00980825838007
qualiti, 7017, 0.0097562956166
loss, 5352, 0.0097562956166
excel, 3261, 0.00970563205929
convinc, 2120, 0.00970563205929
repres, 7294, 0.00968076749287
outsid, 6332, 0.00963193532904
fail, 3360, 0.00963193532904
long, 5336, 0.00957755655734
consider, 2060, 0.00956082498936
promis, 6913, 0.00951476762637
select, 7774, 0.00946973384554
doubl, 2828, 0.00944758677549
size, 8000, 0.00940400581112
togeth, 8969, 0.00938256183599
publish, 6974, 0.00936134240924
million, 5724, 0.00936134240924
think, 8871, 0.00928229354291
structur, 8460, 0.00923849044832
east, 2965, 0.00921872017698
unit, 9278, 0.00919914092574
taken, 8678, 0.00917974903863
longer, 5337, 0.00904896580833
hardwar, 4173, 0.00904896580833
period, 6546, 0.00903095291871
packag, 6375, 0.00882643292938
tri, 9087, 0.0088031365176
rate, 7108, 0.00879426659148
star, 8324, 0.00876260287323
defens, 2476, 0.00876260287323
activ, 252, 0.0086555209276
quick, 7036, 0.00864067517081
averag, 816, 0.00862593738411
stop, 8413, 0.00856803525244
past, 6456, 0.00856803525244
carri, 1530, 0.00856803525244
usual, 9377, 0.00855381458539
like, 5272, 0.00853378769298
particular, 6442, 0.00848417072996
organ, 6287, 0.00848417072996
similar, 7961, 0.00839052332679
forc, 3594, 0.00839052332679
month, 5847, 0.00835167670451
level, 5229, 0.0083135607832
regard, 7224, 0.0083010131472
valu, 9414, 0.00828854272792
lead, 5172, 0.00822731641695
currenc, 2298, 0.00819221848484
aerospatial, 305, 0.00819221848484
need, 5993, 0.00817269078341
shuttl, 7929, 0.00815620607727
effect, 3005, 0.00812156528948
becom, 983, 0.00812156528948
turn, 9158, 0.00806511493345
recent, 7168, 0.00805401114271
posit, 6761, 0.00795672349715
zenit, 9981, 0.00790073372449
woomera, 9828, 0.00790073372449
tenant, 8782, 0.00790073372449
suspicion, 8607, 0.00790073372449
sumitomo, 8534, 0.00790073372449
spawn, 8190, 0.00790073372449
scrub, 7727, 0.00790073372449
rosi, 7485, 0.00790073372449
mainland, 5452, 0.00790073372449
advers, 289, 0.00790073372449
agre, 337, 0.00784382947636
good, 3948, 0.00781365078774
respons, 7323, 0.00780428799274
stuff, 8472, 0.00776550333058
allow, 432, 0.00776550333058
close, 1830, 0.00768086025777
southwestern, 8159, 0.00767464057928
shrink, 7921, 0.00767464057928
reschedul, 7305, 0.00767464057928
norwegian, 6114, 0.00767464057928
norway, 6113, 0.00767464057928
kaliningrad, 4948, 0.00767464057928
division, 2768, 0.00767464057928
descent, 2555, 0.00767464057928
conductor, 2022, 0.00767464057928
buran, 1404, 0.00767464057928
apiec, 565, 0.00767464057928
anchor, 499, 0.00767464057928
hard, 4167, 0.00767167005272
advanc, 285, 0.00766252133859
viabl, 9497, 0.0074899090288
supplier, 8575, 0.0074899090288
startup, 8337, 0.0074899090288
lag, 5094, 0.0074899090288
fiber, 3462, 0.0074899090288
downward, 2846, 0.0074899090288
debt, 2428, 0.0074899090288
consolid, 2063, 0.0074899090288
congression, 2041, 0.0074899090288
compli, 1977, 0.0074899090288
anticip, 543, 0.0074899090288
object, 6173, 0.00746275352562
bad, 861, 0.00746275352562
major, 5458, 0.00743809070511
win, 9770, 0.00736585362827
urban, 9349, 0.00733372072834
telecom, 8756, 0.00733372072834
restructur, 7331, 0.00733372072834
precursor, 6814, 0.00733372072834
poker, 6715, 0.00733372072834
plead, 6687, 0.00733372072834
pessimist, 6572, 0.00733372072834
nls, 6083, 0.00733372072834
nail, 5948, 0.00733372072834
heel, 4236, 0.00733372072834
origin, 6293, 0.00720668709627
spectral, 8209, 0.00719842426844
penetr, 6519, 0.00719842426844
organiz, 6289, 0.00719842426844
larrison, 5129, 0.00719842426844
halt, 4134, 0.00719842426844
egypt, 3014, 0.00719842426844
chunk, 1744, 0.00719842426844
bid, 1078, 0.00719842426844
spark, 8187, 0.00707908433311
spacehab, 8169, 0.00707908433311
shore, 7902, 0.00707908433311
sdi, 7734, 0.00707908433311
regain, 7223, 0.00707908433311
notabl, 6117, 0.00707908433311
leak, 5178, 0.00707908433311
guidelin, 4084, 0.00707908433311
formal, 3611, 0.00707908433311
counti, 2184, 0.00707908433311
aerodynam, 300, 0.00707908433311
second, 7753, 0.00705235091633
group, 4064, 0.00705235091633
player, 6683, 0.00699245187351
vandenberg, 9420, 0.00697233112324
npo, 6134, 0.00697233112324
encompass, 3087, 0.00697233112324
conjunct, 2045, 0.00697233112324
civilian, 1779, 0.00697233112324
camden, 1471, 0.00697233112324
bush, 1423, 0.00697233112324
builder, 1379, 0.00697233112324
wale, 9616, 0.00687576109827
surpass, 8592, 0.00687576109827
recoveri, 7186, 0.00687576109827
commer, 1938, 0.00687576109827
cape, 1501, 0.00687576109827
agricultur, 340, 0.00687576109827
aboard, 182, 0.00687576109827
uncertainti, 9222, 0.00678759957275
sac, 7566, 0.00678759957275
rockwel, 7452, 0.00678759957275
readabl, 7136, 0.00678759957275
itali, 4795, 0.00678759957275
commiss, 1943, 0.00678759957275
beach, 967, 0.00678759957275
best, 1052, 0.00677501444043
said, 7583, 0.00674577242163
great, 4016, 0.00673997431541
sigh, 7942, 0.006706498831
outstand, 6333, 0.006706498831
obey, 6171, 0.006706498831
newtout, 6038, 0.006706498831
irregular, 4770, 0.006706498831
interv, 4724, 0.006706498831
hawaii, 4208, 0.006706498831
fastest, 3400, 0.006706498831
energia, 3103, 0.006706498831
inform, 4637, 0.00666049602136
tokyo, 8972, 0.0066314112723
soyuz, 8163, 0.0066314112723
lunch, 5394, 0.0066314112723
geo, 3834, 0.0066314112723
atlant, 748, 0.0066314112723
probabl, 6885, 0.00662736552746
spinoff, 8237, 0.00656150642755
negoti, 5999, 0.00656150642755
dod, 2789, 0.00656150642755
articl, 665, 0.0065311050527
moscow, 5872, 0.0064961148124
heavier, 4231, 0.0064961148124
guidanc, 4083, 0.0064961148124
geograph, 3841, 0.0064961148124
collabor, 1894, 0.0064961148124
border, 1229, 0.0064961148124
alabama, 374, 0.0064961148124
accompani, 215, 0.0064961148124
twenti, 9169, 0.00643468883193
shelf, 7872, 0.00643468883193
partner, 6444, 0.00643468883193
lifetim, 5263, 0.00643468883193
discrimin, 2705, 0.00643468883193
deliveri, 2508, 0.00643468883193
ll, 5314, 0.00641934337828
union, 9275, 0.00637677487707
novemb, 6129, 0.00637677487707
ministri, 5742, 0.00637677487707
indirect, 4602, 0.00637677487707
crop, 2240, 0.00637677487707
criteria, 2236, 0.00637677487707
constraint, 2072, 0.00637677487707
capac, 1499, 0.00637677487707
analyst, 491, 0.00637677487707
traffic, 9038, 0.00632199297529
subsystem, 8505, 0.00632199297529
innov, 4659, 0.00632199297529
heavili, 4232, 0.00632199297529
healthi, 4222, 0.00632199297529
deliber, 2503, 0.00632199297529
cancel, 1487, 0.00632199297529
tripl, 9105, 0.00627002166719
sensor, 7792, 0.00627002166719
sand, 7605, 0.00627002166719
resolv, 7317, 0.00627002166719
pair, 6394, 0.00627002166719
microwav, 5696, 0.00627002166719
leadership, 5174, 0.00627002166719
exploit, 3306, 0.00627002166719
esa, 3183, 0.00627002166719
believ, 1009, 0.0062579024265
row, 7501, 0.00622058657661
micro, 5684, 0.00622058657661
hire, 4308, 0.00622058657661
recov, 7185, 0.00617345164222
summar, 8535, 0.00612841229983
settl, 7817, 0.00612841229983
navig, 5969, 0.00612841229983
fortun, 3619, 0.00612841229983
usag, 9360, 0.00608529011671
suitabl, 8530, 0.00608529011671
portabl, 6749, 0.00608529011671
octob, 6197, 0.00608529011671
german, 3854, 0.00608529011671
disappear, 2678, 0.00608529011671
conserv, 2058, 0.00608529011671
british, 1320, 0.00608529011671
pacif, 6372, 0.00604392852199
flow, 3555, 0.00604392852199
dozen, 2848, 0.00604392852199
domin, 2808, 0.00604392852199
destruct, 2575, 0.00604392852199
comm, 1932, 0.00604392852199
oxygen, 6363, 0.00600418937496
exchang, 3264, 0.00600418937496
strategi, 8431, 0.00596595018138
competit, 1970, 0.00596595018138
help, 4249, 0.00595336504905
spare, 8186, 0.00592910181625
polici, 6721, 0.00592910181625
parti, 6438, 0.00592910181625
optim, 6274, 0.00592910181625
exercis, 3279, 0.00592910181625
environment, 3140, 0.00592910181625
capit, 1502, 0.00592910181625
sender, 7786, 0.00589354664641
furthermor, 3732, 0.00589354664641
fulfil, 3717, 0.00589354664641
explos, 3308, 0.00589354664641
enclos, 3085, 0.00589354664641
contend, 2083, 0.00589354664641
coast, 1859, 0.00589354664641
award, 832, 0.00589354664641
vertic, 9482, 0.0058591969715
submit, 8491, 0.0058591969715
sponsor, 8254, 0.0058591969715
deliv, 2507, 0.0058591969715
chosen, 1727, 0.0058591969715
seal, 7741, 0.00582597372069
influenc, 4634, 0.00582597372069
craft, 2207, 0.00582597372069
arrang, 652, 0.00579380535635
proven, 6948, 0.00576262694653
panel, 6406, 0.00576262694653
ideal, 4483, 0.00576262694653
guarante, 4076, 0.00576262694653
execut, 3272, 0.00576262694653
examin, 3257, 0.00576262694653
cooper, 2125, 0.00576262694653
consum, 2077, 0.00576262694653
composit, 1982, 0.00576262694653
upper, 9340, 0.00573237937589
hidden, 4286, 0.00573237937589
export, 3310, 0.00573237937589
deploy, 2540, 0.00573237937589
motor, 5882, 0.00570300867105
minim, 5739, 0.00570300867105
focus, 3569, 0.00570300867105
weather, 9679, 0.00567446542102
earn, 2954, 0.00567446542102
congress, 2040, 0.00567446542102
wing, 9779, 0.00564670427707
virginia, 9533, 0.00564670427707
telephon, 8763, 0.00564670427707
specifi, 8204, 0.00564670427707
risk, 7416, 0.00564670427707
portion, 6752, 0.00564670427707
match, 5541, 0.00564670427707
assumpt, 711, 0.00564670427707
aircraft, 359, 0.00564670427707
phase, 6583, 0.00559336467927
oakland, 6167, 0.00559336467927
thermal, 8857, 0.00554269320248
tabl, 8667, 0.00554269320248
suffici, 8523, 0.00554269320248
owner, 6359, 0.00554269320248
literatur, 5307, 0.00554269320248
expand, 3288, 0.00554269320248
arriv, 655, 0.00554269320248
reliabl, 7256, 0.00551827712056
administr, 273, 0.00551827712056
led, 5188, 0.00547114218618
feder, 3425, 0.00544837227582
conclud, 2008, 0.00542610284379
compet, 1969, 0.00542610284379
primari, 6863, 0.0054043123616
databas, 2386, 0.0054043123616
talent, 8683, 0.00538298066066
overal, 6337, 0.00538298066066
numer, 6157, 0.00538298066066
fulli, 3718, 0.00538298066066
assembl, 698, 0.00538298066066
affect, 310, 0.00538298066066
grant, 3994, 0.00536208882011
welcom, 9701, 0.00534161906594
justifi, 4939, 0.00534161906594
rais, 7076, 0.0053215546802
margin, 5507, 0.0053215546802
bunch, 1399, 0.0053215546802
review, 7358, 0.00530187991891
particip, 6440, 0.00530187991891
parallel, 6420, 0.00530187991891
histor, 4313, 0.00530187991891
weight, 9695, 0.00528257993786
somewhat, 8129, 0.00528257993786
comet, 1926, 0.00528257993786
cheaper, 1678, 0.00528257993786
reduc, 7204, 0.00526364072533
agenc, 329, 0.00526364072533
tie, 8923, 0.00524504904097
split, 8247, 0.00524504904097
intellig, 4698, 0.00524504904097
clean, 1799, 0.00524504904097
fun, 3721, 0.00522679236021
monitor, 5837, 0.00520885882356
larger, 5125, 0.00519123719037
born, 1233, 0.00519123719037
street, 8440, 0.00517391679647
content, 2084, 0.00517391679647
typic, 9178, 0.00515688751546
sit, 7993, 0.00514013972309
prevent, 6853, 0.00514013972309
kept, 4989, 0.00512366426465
hurt, 4451, 0.00512366426465
room, 7476, 0.00507578677371
element, 3037, 0.00507578677371
north, 6110, 0.00504508083691
california, 1459, 0.00504508083691
altern, 450, 0.00504508083691
slow, 8044, 0.0050152781481
length, 5212, 0.0050152781481
thousand, 8888, 0.00498632708226
necessari, 5990, 0.00498632708226
meet, 5615, 0.00498632708226
centuri, 1614, 0.00498632708226
search, 7746, 0.00495818031762
spot, 8261, 0.00494439482103
protect, 6940, 0.00494439482103
wide, 9747, 0.00493079437025
war, 9635, 0.00493079437025
fuel, 3715, 0.00493079437025
difficult, 2635, 0.00493079437025
atmospher, 755, 0.00493079437025
propuls, 6936, 0.0049173740632
polit, 6723, 0.0049173740632
combin, 1921, 0.0049173740632
implement, 4544, 0.00489105522323
demonstr, 2520, 0.00489105522323
lunar, 5392, 0.0048654027551
respond, 7322, 0.00485281602965
presid, 6839, 0.00485281602965
occur, 6192, 0.00485281602965
modifi, 5814, 0.00485281602965
class, 1789, 0.00485281602965
remov, 7272, 0.00484038374644
folk, 3576, 0.00484038374644
express, 3315, 0.00484038374644
connect, 2046, 0.00484038374644
billion, 1092, 0.00482810216128
separ, 7797, 0.00481596766452
resourc, 7320, 0.00481596766452
york, 9960, 0.0047921261323
mass, 5533, 0.0047921261323
explor, 3307, 0.0047921261323
easili, 2962, 0.0047921261323
lab, 5085, 0.00478041249468
gave, 3798, 0.00476883273013
associ, 706, 0.00476883273013
eye, 3337, 0.00475738381318
previous, 6855, 0.00474606281977
function, 3722, 0.00474606281977
distribut, 2753, 0.00474606281977
offici, 6207, 0.00471283956896
environ, 3139, 0.00471283956896
improv, 4557, 0.00468067120462
handl, 4149, 0.00468067120462
institut, 4683, 0.00465977936406
cover, 2194, 0.00465977936406
higher, 4293, 0.0046494927948
consist, 2061, 0.00461924522416
schedul, 7678, 0.00460936008849
action, 251, 0.00460936008849
forward, 3621, 0.00459957046287
buy, 1433, 0.00459957046287
don, 2811, 0.0045964292014
half, 4124, 0.00458987451931
surpris, 8593, 0.00456133126929
hour, 4395, 0.00456133126929
went, 9704, 0.00452448290416
pass, 6448, 0.00452448290416
knowledg, 5053, 0.00451547645936
technic, 8737, 0.00449770024254
prove, 6947, 0.00449770024254
locat, 5323, 0.00448892773432
lost, 5355, 0.00448023052754
date, 2391, 0.00445457805941
cut, 2313, 0.00445457805941
main, 5450, 0.00444616955996
surfac, 8587, 0.00442955905075
limit, 5278, 0.00442955905075
individu, 4604, 0.00442955905075
written, 9867, 0.0044213548086
aren, 623, 0.0044213548086
physic, 6613, 0.00440514296883
entir, 3129, 0.00440514296883
definit, 2484, 0.00438130143661
signific, 7951, 0.00436571315423
purpos, 6993, 0.00435800803445
face, 3345, 0.00435800803445
ad, 257, 0.00435036106706
white, 9737, 0.00434277138086
delet, 2502, 0.00434277138086
haven, 4207, 0.0043277604638
fli, 3542, 0.0043277604638
land, 5104, 0.00431296869206
fair, 3363, 0.00429117820987
record, 7184, 0.00428401762622
obvious, 6185, 0.00428401762622
miss, 5770, 0.00428401762622
bring, 1316, 0.00428401762622
station, 8346, 0.00427690729269
compar, 1960, 0.00426283458912
model, 5807, 0.00424895466837
singl, 7983, 0.00420181973399
messag, 5650, 0.00418874576718
box, 1254, 0.00413807429039
mark, 5512, 0.00412579270524
suppos, 8577, 0.00411970729133
area, 622, 0.00411970729133
night, 6063, 0.00411365820847
explain, 3301, 0.00409572467183
center, 1606, 0.00408981667626
came, 1472, 0.00408394293013
net, 6010, 0.00407810303864
convert, 2115, 0.00407229661375
comment, 1936, 0.00406652327409
alreadi, 443, 0.00406078264474
known, 5054, 0.00404939804891
total, 9013, 0.00404375336373
light, 5267, 0.00403255746672
left, 5193, 0.00403255746672
exact, 3253, 0.0040214839317
short, 7904, 0.00400509729363
sound, 8150, 0.00397836174858
type, 9177, 0.00395746990802
claim, 1782, 0.00394718333876
version, 9479, 0.0039420789533
discuss, 2708, 0.00389726100682
today, 8964, 0.00387319293053
relat, 7247, 0.00387319293053
import, 4551, 0.00384043012888
old, 6216, 0.00383126066929
alway, 457, 0.0038267068712
scienc, 7692, 0.00378661827828
requir, 7302, 0.00376929788438
sourc, 8153, 0.00373968187791
hand, 4145, 0.00367507236884
exampl, 3258, 0.00367507236884
given, 3887, 0.00363668829524
understand, 9246, 0.00363292866804
state, 8342, 0.00359246811239
consid, 2059, 0.00355356140553
thought, 8887, 0.00353635864307
write, 9865, 0.00349295220735
end, 3091, 0.00349295220735
real, 7144, 0.00347352889621
place, 6657, 0.00347032757168
big, 1082, 0.00345132917065
bit, 1122, 0.00341739783529
didn, 2625, 0.00338456609081
follow, 3578, 0.00333024801068
got, 3960, 0.00332469611531
right, 7399, 0.00308212751166
run, 7543, 0.00305207222081
better, 1060, 0.00303113721223
realli, 7150, 0.0030065731396
day, 2402, 0.00300455276332
mani, 5479, 0.00287406129159
way, 9666, 0.00265045544505
say, 7653, 0.00257242439991
make, 5459, 0.00254128591751
