Filename: /home/dev/scikit_learn_data/20news_home/20news-bydate-test/talk.religion.misc/84286
Truth category: 3 (talk.religion.misc)
Assigned cluster: 2 (god christian jesus moral say peopl koresh bibl object believ)

Raw data:
============ START RAW ==========================
From: ACUS10@WACCVM.SPS.MOT.COM (Mark Fuller)
Subject: Re: [rw] is Robert Weiss the only Orthodox Christian
Nntp-Posting-Host: 192.55.25.1
Organization: Motorola Inc.
Lines: 965

In article <93111.074840LIBRBA@BYUVM.BITNET> LIBRBA@BYUVM.BITNET writes:
>
>  Robert, you keep making references to "orthodox" belief, and saying things
>like "it is held that..." (cf. "Kermit" thread).  On what exact body of
>theology are you drawing for what you call "orthodox?"  Who is that "holds
>that" Luke meant what you said he meant?  Whenever your personal interpretation
>of Biblical passages is challenged, your only response seems
>to be that one needs merely to "look at the Bible" in order to see the truth,
>but what of those who see Biblical things differently from you?  Are we to
>simply assume that you are the only one who really understands it?

Rick, I think we can safely say, 1) Robert is not the only person
who understands the Bible, and 2), the leadership of the LDS church
historicly never has.  Let's consider some "personal interpretations"
and see how much trust we should put in "Orthodox Mormonism", which
could never be confused with Orthodox Christianity.

        In one of his attacks on Christians, the Mormon Apostle Bruce R.
McConkie said they "thrash around in...darkness in trying to identify
Elohim and Jehovah and to show their relationship to the promised
Messiah." He also said Christians are wrong to believe "that Jehovah is
the Supreme Deity [God the Father]," and that Christ "came into
mortality" as His "Only Begotten" Son. McConkie then stated what Mormons
believe today to be the truth about the matter. He said that "Elohim is
the Father" and "Jehovah is the Son."

  "Being thus aware of how far astray the religious intellectualists
  have gone in defining their three-in-one God, it comes as no surprise
  to learn that they thrash around in the same darkness in trying to
  identify Elohim and Jehovah and to show their relationship to the
  promised Messiah. Some sectarians even believe that Jehovah is the
  Supreme Deity whose Son came into mortality as the Only Begotten. As
  with their concept that God is a Spirit, this misinformation about the
  Gods of Heaven is untrue. The fact is, and it too is attested by Holy
  Writ, that Elohim is the Father, and that Jehovah is the Son who was
  born into mortality as the Lord Jesus Christ, the promised Messiah.
  (Promised Messiah, p. 100)

        Notice that McConkie said the Christians are as wrong about
their "three-in-one God" and their belief that "God is a Spirit" as they
are in their understanding of who "Elohim" and "Jehovah" are. Before
examining McConkie's attack and its validity, we shall read a few more
statements by McConkie and other Mormon sources concerning the words
"Elohim" and "Jehovah." McConkie stated:

  "...the chief designation of Christ that has been preserved for us in
  the Old Testament, as that ancient work is now published, is the
  exalted name-title Jehovah. (Promised Messiah, p. 367)

  "_Elohim_, plural word though it is, is also used as the exalted
  name-title of God the Eternal Father, a usage that connotes his
  supremacy and omnipotence, he being God above all Gods. (Mormon
  Doctrine, p. 224)

        Agreeing with McConkie on the question of who "Elohim" and
"Jehovah" are, the Apostle James E. Talmage stated:

  "_Elohim_, as understood and used in the restored Church of Jesus
  Christ, is the name-title of God the Eternal Father, whose firstborn
  Son in the spirit is _Jehovah_ -- the Only Begotten in the flesh,
  Jesus Christ. (Jesus the Christ, p. 38)

        "A Doctrinal Exposition by The First Presidency and the Twelve"
apostles of the Mormon Church states that "God the Eternal Father...[is]
designate[d] by the exalted name-title 'Elohim'..." (Articles of Faith,
p. 466) "...Christ in His preexistent, antemortal, or unembodied
state...was known as Jehovah..." (Articles of Faith, p. 471)

        Today Mormon leaders teach that "Elohim" in the OT refers to God
the Father and "Jehovah" refers to Christ. McConkie attacked Christians
for saying "Jehovah" can refer to the Father. He stressed that these two
"name-titles" should not be changed around so that Christ is called
"Elohim" and the Father is called "Jehovah." "...the Father...is Elohim,
not Jehovah.... Jehovah is Christ, and Christ is Jehovah; they are one
and the same person." (Promised Messiah, p. 111)

        In the OT of the KJV of the Bible, the Hebrew word "Elohim" is
used to refer to the true God, false gods and goddesses, and the judges
of Israel. When referring to the true God, "Elohim" is translated with a
capital "G." When referring to false gods and goddesses and the judges
of Israel, it is translated with a small "g." It is translated four
times as "judges" (Exod. 21:6; 22:8-9), once as "judge" (1 Sam. 2:25),
twice as "mighty" (Gen. 23:6; Exod. 9:28), once as "angels" (Ps. 8:5),
once as "godly" (Mal. 2:15), once as "great" (Gen. 30:8), and once as
"very great." (1 Sam. 14:15)

        The word "Jehovah" is the traditional pronunciation of the
tetragrammation YHWH or YHVH with the vowel points taken from the word
"Adonai."  Many people believe the true pronunciation of the
tetragrammation was Yahweh or Yahveh. However, since "Jehovah" rather
than Yahweh is the word used by Mormonism, this section will also use
"Jehovah" instead of Yahweh to examine the validity of the claims of
Mormon leaders regarding that name. "Jehovah," unlike "Elohim," is never
used of false gods. It is the personal name of the triune God of the
Bible. In the KJV, "Jehovah" is rendered primarily "LORD," sometimes
"GOD," and rarely "Lord."

        Now that we understand something about the words "Elohim" and
"Jehovah" and their use by Mormon leaders, we shall consider the Apostle
McConkie's attack on Christians for believing the Father is "Jehovah."
In trying to prove that "Jehovah" refers exclusively to Christ, McConkie
cited several verses from the Bible. Some of these verses and McConkie's
interpretation of them will be examined to see whether he was right.
Remember, McConkie said the Father is not "Jehovah;" He is only
"Elohim." The first example we shall consider involves McConkie's
interpretation of Ps. 110:1. Of this verse he stated:

  "Of whom spake David when his tongue was touched by the Holy Spirit
  and he testified, "The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou at my right
  hand, until I make thine enemies thy footstool?" (Ps. 110:1.) Two
  Lords are here involved: one is speaking to the other; one is greater
  than the other; one is making provision for the triumph and glory of
  the other. Who are they and what message is contained in this
  Messianic prophecy?
  "What think ye of Christ?" our Lord asked certain of his detractors
  toward the end of his mortal ministry. "Whose son is he?" Is Christ
  the Son of God or of someone else? Is he to be born of a divine Parent
  or will he be as other men -- a mortal son of a mortal father? That he
  was to be a descendant of David was a matter of great pride to all the
  Jews. And so they answered, "The Son of David."
  David's son? Truly he was. But he was more, much more. And so our
  Lord, with irrefutable logic and to their complete discomfiture,
  asked, "How then doth David in spirit call him Lord, saying, The Lord
  said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand, till I make thine
  enemies thy footstool? If David then call him Lord, how is he his
  son?" That is, if he is only the Son of David, how is it that the
  great King, acting under inspiration, calls him Lord and worships him
  as such? And we might add: _Who is the other Lord, the one who spake
  unto David's Lord?_ Can there be any question as to how Jesus is
  interpreting the words of the Psalm? He is saying that it means: '_The
  Father said unto the Son, Elohim said unto Jehovah_, sit thou on my
  right hand, until after your mortal ministry; then I will raise you up
  to eternal glory and exaltation with me, where you will continue to
  sit on my right hand forever.' (Promised Messiah, pp. 101-102)
  (emphasis added)

        Agreeing with the above statement by McConkie, the following
remark in the Mormon pamphlet _What the Mormons Think of Christ, p. 6
reads: "The Lord [Elohim, the Father] said unto my Lord [Jehovah, the
Son]..." (brackets in original)

        McConkie clearly stated that it is "Elohim" the Father who is
speaking to "Jehovah" the Son in this Psalm. However, when one looks at
the Hebrew word translated "LORD," it becomes apparent that either the
first "LORD" is not the Father or else the Father is "Jehovah." Either
way McConkie is wrong. The Psalm reads:

  "The LORD [Jehovah] said unto my Lord [Adon], Sit thou at my right
  hand, until I make thine enemies thy footstool. (Ps. 110:1)

        The first "LORD" in this verse is "Jehovah" who Mormonism says
is Christ, not the Father. The second "Lord" is the Hebrew word "Adon"
(singular for "Adonai," meaning master or lord). If the first "LORD" is
the Father and the second "Lord" is the Son, then the Father is
"Jehovah" and the Son is "Adon." However, if the Father is not "Jehovah"
as McConkie claimed, then the first "LORD" is "Jehovah" the Son, but
who, then, is "Adon?" Obviously the Father is "Jehovah" in this Psalm,
and His Son is "Adon."

        Another example involves Isa. 42:6 about which McConkie stated
the following:

  "I the Lord have called thee in righteousness," _Isaiah quoted the
  Father as saying of Christ_, "and will hold thine hand, and will keep
  thee, and give thee for a covenant of the people, for a light of the
  Gentiles." (Isa. 42:6.) (Promised Messiah, p. 81) (emphasis added)

        McConkie said the Father was speaking of Christ in this passage
which reads:

  "I the LORD [Jehovah] have called thee in righteousness, and will hold
  thine hand, and will keep thee, and give thee for a covenant of the
  people, for a light of the Gentiles. (Isa. 42:6)

        According to McConkie, "I the LORD" refers to the Father, and
"thine" and "thee" refer to Christ. However, the "LORD" who is speaking
is "Jehovah" which means either McConkie was wrong about who is speaking
or else the Father is "Jehovah."

        Another example involves Ps. 22:7-8. Of these verses McConkie
stated:

  "The same Psalm says: "All they that see me laugh me to scorn: they
  shoot out the lip, they shake the head, saying, He trusted on the Lord
  that he would deliver him: let him deliver him, seeing he delighted in
  him." (Ps. 22:7-8.) _The fulfillment, as Jesus hung on the cross_, is
  found in these words: "The chief priests mocking him, with the scribes
  and elders, said, He saved others; himself he cannot save. If he be
  the King of Israel, let him now come down from the cross, and we will
  believe him. He trusted in God; let him deliver him now, if he will
  have him: for he said, I am the Son of God. The thieves also, which
  were crucified with him, cast the same in his teeth." (Matt.
  27:41-44.) (Promised Messiah, pp. 530-531) (emphasis added)

        Ps. 22:7-8 reads as follows:

  "All they that see me laugh me to scorn: they shoot out the lip, they
  shake the head, saying, He trusted on the LORD [Jehovah] that he would
  deliver him: let him deliver him, seeing he delighted in him.

        McConkie said these verses had their fulfillment "as Jesus hung
on the cross." That means the person who was scorned in these verses was
Christ. Who, then, was the "LORD" in whom he trusted? It was "Jehovah"
the Father.

        Another example involves Ps. 31:13 and Ps. 41:9. Regarding them,
McConkie stated the following:

  "With reference to the conniving and conspiring plots incident to our
  Lord's arrest and judicial trials the prophecy was: "They took counsel
  together against me, they devised to take away my life." (Ps. 31:13.)
  As to the role of Judas in those conspiracies, the Psalmist says:
  "Mine own familiar friend, in whom I trusted, which did eat of my
  bread, hath lifted up his heel against me." (Ps. 41:9.) (Promised
  Messiah, p. 532)

        Apostle McConkie said these Psalms refer to Christ's "arrest and
judicial trials." We shall first consider Ps. 31 and then Ps. 41. While
McConkie only quoted verse 13 of Ps. 31, verse 14 will also be included
to give a complete understanding of the matter.

  "For I have heard the slander of many: fear was on every side: while
  they took counsel together against me, they devised to take away my
  life. But I trusted in thee, O LORD [Jehovah]: I said, Thou art my God
  [Elohim]. (Ps. 31:13-14)

        McConkie said verse 13 referred to Jesus Christ. Verse 14 goes
on to tell that He (Christ) trusted in the "LORD" who is called His
"God" or "Elohim." Mormonism teaches that the God above Jesus is
"Elohim" the Father. Verse 14, however, reveals that the "Elohim" of the
man Jesus is "Jehovah" the Father.

        In Ps. 41, McConkie only quoted one verse; however, two verses
will be considered in this examination.

  "Yea, mine own familiar friend, in whom I trusted, which did eat of my
  bread, hath lifted up his heel against me.
  But thou, O LORD [Jehovah], be merciful unto me, and raise me up, that
  I may requite them. (Ps. 41:9-10)

        McConkie stated above that verse 9 referred to Judas' role in
Christ's death. Since it was Judas who was the "familiar friend" who
"lifted up his heel," the pronouns "mine," "I," "my," and "me" in verse
9 must refer to Christ. Notice that at the beginning of verse 10 there
is a change of pronoun to "thou," which refers to the "LORD" (Jehovah).
Then the pronouns "me" and "I" which refer to Christ are used again.
That means Christ was speaking to "Jehovah" the Father in these verses.

        Another example involves McConkie's following remark about Ps.
        110:4.

  "One of the great Messianic prophecies, spoken by the mouth of David,
  says: "The Lord hath sworn, and will not repent, Thou art a priest for
  ever after the order of Melchizedek." (Ps. 110:4.) (Promised Messiah,
  p. 450)

        McConkie admitted this is a Messianic prophecy involving Christ.
The question is, What in this verse refers to Christ?

  "The LORD [Jehovah] hath sworn, and will not repent, Thou art a priest
  for ever after the order of Melchizedek. (Ps. 110:4)

        Does the "LORD," which is "Jehovah," refer to Christ? If
McConkie is right and Jesus is "Jehovah," but the Father is not, then
the "LORD" would have to refer to Christ. But who, then, is the one
addressed as the "priest forever after the order of Melchizedek?" The
Bible reveals that the one referred to is Jesus Christ (Heb. 5:8-10;
6:20; 7); therefore, the "LORD" (Jehovah) in Ps. 110:4 is the Father.

        Another example involves Isa. 53:4-12. Of these verses McConkie
stated:

  "Of the atoning sacrifice of the future Messiah, Isaiah said...
     The _Lord_ has laid on him the iniquities of us all....
     It pleased the _Lord_ to bruise him... (Promised Messiah, p. 234)
     (emphasis added)

        McConkie rightly said these verses refer to "the atoning
sacrifice of the future Messiah." However, what he failed to mention is
that they also prove that the Father is "Jehovah." Verse 6 reads: "All
we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every one to his own way;
and the LORD [Jehovah] hath laid on him [Christ] the iniquity of us
all," and verse 10 reads: "Yet it pleased the LORD [Jehovah] to bruise
him [Christ]..."

        Obviously the "LORD" who laid on Christ "the iniquity of us all"
and who bruised Him is God the Father who is called "Jehovah" in these
verses.

        Remember, McConkie stated that "some sectarians even believe
that Jehovah is the Supreme Deity," and that Christ "came into
mortality" as His "Only Begotten" Son. He called this concept
"misinformation" that is "untrue." To prove that it is McConkie who is
misinformed and believing untruth, two Scriptural references (2 Sam.
7:14; Ps. 2:7) will be examined. McConkie stated the following regarding
these Scriptures:

  "In the midst of a passage that is clearly Messianic, the Lord says of
  the Seed of David: "I will be his father, and he shall be my son." (2
  Sam. 7:14.) In the second Psalm, the whole of which is also clearly
  Messianic, occurs this statement: "Thou art my Son; this day have I
  begotten thee." (Ps. 2:7.) Paul quotes both of these statements in
  Hebrews 1:5 and says they are prophecies that Christ would come as the
  Son of God. (Promised Messiah, p. 143)

        McConkie cited Heb. 1:5 to show that 2 Sam. 7:14 and Ps. 2:7
refer to Christ who "would come as the Son of God." Since McConkie first
referenced 2 Sam. 7:14, this examination will, too. However, along with
verse 14, verses 11-13 will also be included.

  "And as since the time that I commanded judges to be over my people
  Israel, and have caused thee to rest from all thine enemies. Also the
  LORD [Jehovah] telleth thee that he will make thee an house.
  And when thy days be fulfilled, and thou shalt sleep with thy fathers,
  I will set up thy seed after thee, which shall proceed out of thy
  bowels, and I will establish his kingdom.
  He shall build an house for my name, and I will stablish the throne of
  his kingdom for ever. I will be his father, and he shall be my son. (2
  Sam. 7:11-14)

        These verses teach that the "LORD" (Jehovah) would have a Son,
the Messiah.
        In the second example McConkie cited Ps. 2:7. This examination
will include verse 8. Notice that it is the "LORD" (Jehovah) who says,
"Thou art my Son; this day have I begotten thee."

  "I will declare the decree: the LORD [Jehovah] hath said unto me, Thou
  art my Son; this day have I begotten thee.
  Ask of me, and I shall give thee the heathen for thine inheritance,
  and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession.

        McConkie said these verses of Scripture are "clearly Messianic,"
and he acknowledged they teach that "Christ would come as the Son of
God." What he is not willing to acknowledge, however, is that these
Scriptures also teach that the Father is "Jehovah" and that the
"sectarians" who believe "Jehovah is the Supreme Deity whose Son" is
Jesus Christ, "the Only Begotten," are right in their belief.

        Another example involves Mic. 5:4. Of this verse McConkie stated
the following:

  "And so, truly, did our Lord act _during his mortal ministry! Truly,
  this is he of whom it is written_: "He shall stand and feed in the
  strength of the Lord, in the majesty of the name of the LORD his
  God... for now shall he be great unto the ends of the earth." (Mic.
  5:4.) (Promised Messiah, p. 182) (emphasis added)

        According to McConkie, the pronoun "He" at the beginning of Mic.
5:4 refers to Christ "during his mortal ministry." Who, then, is the
"LORD his God?" Mic. 5:4 reads:

  "And he [Christ] shall stand and feed in the strength of the LORD
  [Jehovah], in the majesty of the name of the LORD [Jehovah] his God
  [Elohim]... for now shall he be great unto the ends of the earth.

        Obviously the "LORD" of Jesus Christ is "Jehovah" the Father who
is referred to as "Jehovah his Elohim."

        Another example involves Ps. 2:2 and Isa. 61:1. Of these verses
McConkie stated the following:

  "A number of Messianic passages speak of "the Lord, and...his
  anointed" (Ps. 2:2), signifying that the Chosen One was consecrated
  and set apart for the ministry and mission that was his. _Jesus
  applied these passages to himself_ by quoting Isaiah's prophecy. "The
  Lord hath anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek" (Isa.
  61:1), and then saying: "This day is this scripture fulfilled in your
  ears" (Luke 4:21). (Promised Messiah, pp. 182-183) (emphasis added)

        The first source McConkie quoted -- Ps. 2:2 -- reads as follows:

  "The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel
  together, against the LORD [Jehovah], and against his anointed.

        McConkie said the "anointed" one was Christ. If that is true,
who was "Jehovah?" If "Jehovah" is always Christ, who was the "anointed"
one? Obviously "Jehovah" is referring to God the Father and the
"anointed" is indeed referring to Christ. The second source McConkie
cited is Isa. 61:1 which states:

  "The Spirit of the Lord [Adonai] GOD [Jehovah] is upon me; because the
  LORD [Jehovah] hath anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek;
  he hath sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to
  the captives, and the opening of the prison to them that are bound;

        The one who was anointed to preach, bind up, proclaim, and open
was Jesus Christ. Who, then, was the one who anointed Him? This verse
says the "LORD" (Jehovah) did the anointing. Again, we face the same
problem. If "Jehovah" does not refer to the Father, but only to Christ,
then Jesus anointed someone, but who? As McConkie pointed out, "Jesus
applied these passages to himself." Therefore, the "Jehovah" who
anointed Christ is God the Father.

        Other examples could be cited to show that McConkie and other
Mormon leaders are wrong when they say God the Father is not "Jehovah."
However, these should be enough to expose their error.

        Now, what about Mormonism's claim that Jesus is "Jehovah," but
He is not "Elohim?" It is true that Jesus is "Jehovah." The following
Scriptures prove this fact:

  "Thus saith the LORD [Jehovah] the King of Israel, and his redeemer
  the LORD [Jehovah] of hosts; I am the first, and I am the last; and
  beside me there is no God. (Isa. 44:6)
  [Jesus said] ...I am the first and the last: I am he that liveth, and
  was dead... (Rev. 1:17-18)

  "...saith the LORD [Jehovah]...they shall look upon me whom they have
  pierced, and they shall mourn for him, as one mourneth for his only
  son... (Zech. 12:1,10)
  Behold, he [Christ] cometh with clouds; and every eye shall see him,
  and they also which pierced him... (Rev. 1:7)

  "...I am the LORD [Jehovah] thy God, the Holy One of Israel... (Isa.
  43:3)
  ...Ye denied the Holy One [Christ] and the Just... (Acts 3:14)

  "And it shall come to pass that whosoever shall call on the name of
  the LORD [Jehovah] shall be delivered... (Joel 2:32)
  "...the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth...there is none other name
  under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved. (Acts 4:10,12)

  "Behold, the Lord GOD [Jehovah] will come with strong hand...his
  reward is with him... (Isa. 40:10)
  ...Behold, I [Christ] come quickly; and my reward is with me... (Rev.
  22:12)

  "...the LORD [Jehovah] my God shall come, and all the saints with
  thee. (Zech. 14:5)
  "...at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ with all his saints. (1
  Thess. 3:13)

  "The LORD [Jehovah] is my shepherd... (Ps. 23:1)
  [Jesus said] I am the good shepherd... (John 10:14)

  "...saith the Lord GOD [Jehovah]. I will seek that which was lost...
  (Ezek. 34:15-16)
  ...the Son of man is come to seek and to save that which was lost.
  (Luke 19:10)

  "For I am the LORD [Jehovah] thy God, the Holy One of Israel, thy
  Saviour... (Isa. 43:3)
  Looking for that blessed hope, and the glorious appearing of the great
  God and our Saviour Jesus Christ. (Tit. 2:13. See also Jer. 42:5 and
  Rev. 1:5; Mal. 3:6 and Heb. 13:8; 1 Kin. 8:28,39 and John 2:24-25;
  Isa. 25:8 and 2 Tim. 1:10; Ps. 107:24,29 and Matt. 8:26; Prov.3:12 and
  Rev. 3:19)

        While Mormons are right when they say Jesus is "Jehovah," they
are wrong when they say He is not "Elohim." The Bible reveals that
"Jehovah" is the only true "Elohim" there is; all others are false.
Remember, "Jehovah" is the personal name of the triune God who has
revealed Himself in the Bible.

        Before we consider Biblical quotes which show that "Jehovah" and
"Elohim" are not two separate gods as Mormons claims let us first note
that not only are both God the Father and Christ addressed as "Jehovah"
and "Elohim" but so is the Holy Spirit.

  "Whereof the _Holy Ghost_..._said_...This _is_ the covenant that I
  will make with them after those days, saith the Lord, I will put my
  laws into their hearts, and in their minds will I write them; And
  their sins and iniquities will I remember no more. (Heb. 10:15-17)
  (emphasis on "Holy Ghost" and "said" added)
  Behold, the days come, _saith the LORD_ [Jehovah], that I will make a
  new covenant with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah...
  I will put my law in their inward parts, and write it in their hearts;
  and will be their God [Elohim], and they shall be my people.... I will
  forgive their iniquity, and I will remember their sin no more. (Jer.
  31:31,33-34) (emphasis added)

  "For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man: but holy
  men of God spake as they were moved by the _Holy Ghost_. (2 Pet. 1:21)
  (emphasis on "Holy Ghost" added)
  "The Spirit of the LORD [Jehovah] spake by me, and his word was in
  my tongue. (2 Sam. 23:2. See also Heb. 3:7-11 with Ps. 95:6-11)

        Let us now continue with the Biblical quotes which show that
"Jehovah" and "Elohim" are not two separate gods as Mormons claim.

  "And when the LORD [Jehovah] saw that he [Moses] turned aside to see,
  God [Elohim] called unto him out of the midst of the bush, and said,
  Moses, Moses. And he said, Here am I.... [Bruce R. McConkie
  acknowledged that "it was" Christ's "voice that spoke to Moses in the
  burning bush..." Promised Messiah, p. 394]
  And the LORD [Jehovah] said...
  And Moses said unto God [Elohim], Behold, when I come unto the
  children of Israel, and shall say unto them, The God [Elohim] of your
  fathers hath sent me unto you; and they shall say to me, What is his
  name? what shall I say unto them?
  And God [Elohim] said unto Moses, I AM THAT I AM: and he said, Thus
  shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, I AM hath sent me unto
  you.
  And God [Elohim] said moreover unto Moses, Thus shalt thou say unto
  the children of Israel, the LORD [Jehovah] God [Elohim] of your
  fathers, the God [Elohim] of Abraham, the God [Elohim] of Isaac, and
  the God [Elohim] of Jacob, hath sent me unto you: this is my name for
  ever, and this is my memorial unto all generations. (Exod.
  3:4,7,13-15)

  "And God [Elohim] spake unto Moses, and said unto him, I am the LORD
  [Jehovah]. (Exod. 6:2)

  "I am the LORD [Jehovah], and there is none else, there is no God
  [Elohim] beside me: I girded thee, though thou hast not known me:
  (Isa. 45:5)

  "But the LORD [Jehovah] is the true God [Elohim], he is the living God
  [Elohim], and an everlasting king... (Jer. 10:10)

  "Thus saith the LORD [Jehovah] the King of Israel, and his redeemer
  the LORD [Jehovah] of hosts; I am the first, and I am the last; and
  beside me there is no God [Elohim]. (Isa. 44:6)

  "Therefore will I cause you to go into captivity beyond Damascus,
  saith the LORD [Jehovah], whose name is The God [Elohim] of hosts.
  (Amos 5:27)

  "Behold, the heaven and the heaven of heavens is the LORD's
  [Jehovah's] thy God [Elohim], the earth also, with all that therein
  is. (Deut. 10:14)

  "Wherefore thou art great, O LORD [Jehovah] God [Elohim]: for there is
  none like thee, neither is there any God [Elohim] beside thee,
  according to all that we have heard with our ears. (2 Sam. 7:22)

  "And he said unto them, I am an Hebrew; and I fear the LORD [Jehovah],
  the God [Elohim] of heaven, which hath made the sea and the dry land.
  (Jon. 1:9)

  "For who is God [Elohim] save the LORD [Jehovah]? or who is a rock
  save our God [Elohim]? (Ps. 18:31)

  "Blessed is the nation whose God [Elohim] is the LORD [Jehovah]...
  (Ps. 33:12. See also Ps. 144:15)

  "Hast thou not known? hast thou not heard, that the everlasting God
  [Elohim], the LORD [Jehovah], the Creator of the ends of the earth,
  fainteth not, neither is weary? there is no searching of his
  understanding. (Isa. 40:28)

  "The mighty God [Elohim], even the LORD [Jehovah], hath spoken, and
  called the earth from the rising of the sun unto the going down
  thereof. (Ps. 50:1)

  "Sing unto God [Elohim], sing praises to his name: estol him that
  rideth upon the heavens by his name JAH, and rejoice before him. (Ps.
  68:4) [Regarding the word "Jah," Bruce R. McConkie stated: "Jah
  (Hebrew Yah) is a contracted form of Jehovah, Jahveh, or Yahweh -- all
  of which names have reference to Christ, the God of Israel." Mormon
  Doctrine, p. 391]

  "And David arose, and went with all the people that were with him from
  Baale of Judah, to bring up from thence the ark of God [Elohim], whose
  name is called by the name of the LORD [Jehovah] of hosts that
  dwelleth between the cherubims. (2 Sam. 6:2)

  "...the Great the Mighty God [Elohim], the LORD [Jehovah] of hosts, is
  his name. (Jer. 32:18)

  "O my God [Elohim], make them like a wheel; as the stubble before the
  wind....
  Fill their faces with shame; that they may seek thy name, O LORD
  [Jehovah]....
  That men may know that thou, whose name alone is JEHOVAH, art the most
  high over all the earth. (Ps. 83:13,16,18)

        The Bible clearly teaches that "Jehovah" is "Elohim." In fact,
He is the only "Elohim" there is. He is the "true," the "living," the
"mighty," the "great," and the "everlasting Elohim." He is the "Elohim"
of Israel, of all the kingdoms of the earth, and of the heavens. He is
the Creator who made the heavens and all their host and the earth and
all that dwell thereon. "Jehovah's" name is "Elohim of hosts." (Amos
5:27)

        Not only is "Jehovah," "Elohim," but "Elohim" is "Jehovah." The
Bible reveals that "Elohim's" name is "Jah" (Ps. 68:4), "Jehovah" (Ps.
83:18), and "Jehovah of hosts." (2 Sam. 6:2; Jer. 32:18)   The nation
whose "Elohim" is "Jehovah" is blessed. (Ps. 33:12) Clearly, this is not
the "Jehovah" and "Elohim" of the Mormons.

        Another Mormon error regarding "Elohim" and "Jehovah" is the
belief that "Elohim," not "Jehovah," is the Father of all the spirits,
including Jesus. In the Articles of Faith by Apostle James E. Talmage,
"A Doctrinal Exposition by The First Presidency and The Twelve" apostles
states that "God the Eternal Father...'Elohim,' is the literal Parent
of...the spirits of the human race." (p. 466) This "Doctrinal
Exposition" also states explicitly that "Jesus Christ is not the Father
of the spirits who have taken or yet shall take bodies upon this earth,
for He is one of them. He is The Son, as they are sons and daughters of
Elohim." (p. 473)

        The Apostle Talmage stated that "_Elohim_...is the name-title of
God the Eternal Father, whose firstborn Son in the spirit is
_Jehovah_--" (Jesus the Christ, p. 38)

        The Apostle Bruce R. McConkie stated the following about this
matter: "...Jehovah-Christ...did in fact create the earth and all forms
of plant and animal life on the face thereof. _But when it came to
placing man on earth, there was a change in Creators_. That is, the
Father himself became personally involved. All things were created by
the Son, using the power delegated by the Father, except man. _In the
spirit and again in the flesh, man was created by the Father_. There was
no delegation of authority where the crowning creature of creation was
concerned." (Promised Messiah, p. 62) (emphasis added)

        Mormon leaders claim that "Jehovah-Christ" did not create either
man's spirit or his body. They maintain that the Mormon "Elohim," who is
the father, created man both in spirit and body. The Bible reveals the
truth about who created man.

  "And Moses spake unto the LORD [Jehovah], saying,
  Let the LORD [Jehovah], the God [Elohim] of the _spirits of all
  flesh_, set a man over the congregation. (Num. 27:15-16. See also
  16:20-23) (emphasis added)

  "...the LORD [Jehovah], which stretcheth forth the heavens, and layeth
  the foundation of the earth, and _formeth the spirit of man within
  him_. (Zech. 12:1) (emphasis added)

  "...the LORD [Jehovah]...made us this soul... (Jer. 38:16)

  "For I will not contend for ever, neither will I be always wroth: for
  the spirit should fail before me, and the _souls which I have
  made_....
  ...saith the LORD [Jehovah]... (Isa. 57:16,19) (emphasis on "souls...I
  have made" added)

  "Behold, I am the LORD [Jehovah], the God [Elohim] _of all flesh_...
  (Jer. 32:27) (emphasis added)

  "Thus saith the LORD [Jehovah], thy redeemer, and he that _formed thee
  from the womb_.
  I am the LORD [Jehovah] that maketh all things... (Isa. 44:24)
  (emphasis added)

  "Thus saith the LORD [Jehovah]...
  I have made the earth, and _created man_ upon it... (Isa. 45:11-12)
  (emphasis added)

  "...God [Elohim] created man upon the earth...
  Unto thee it was shewed, that thou mightest know that the LORD
  [Jehovah] he is God [Elohim]; there is none else beside him. (Deut.
  4:32,35)

  "Thus saith God [El] the LORD [Jehovah]...he that spread forth the
  earth, and that which cometh out of it; he that giveth breath unto the
  people upon it, and spirit to them that walk therein. (Isa. 42:5)

  "...Thus saith the LORD [Jehovah] of hosts, the God [Elohim] of
  Israel... I have made the earth, _the man_ and the beast that are upon
  the ground... (Jer. 27:4-5) (most emphasis added)

        The Bible reveals that it is "Jehovah" who is the "Elohim of the
spirits of all flesh" and "of all flesh" itself, that it was He who
"formed the spirit of man within him," that He "made us this soul" and
"formed us from the womb." He did indeed "create man."

        If Mormon leaders are right when they say Jesus is "Jehovah,"
then they are wrong when they say he did not create man. If they are
right when they say the father is the one who created man, then they are
wrong when they say he is not "Jehovah."

        Although Mormon leaders teach that Jesus did not create man,
Mormon scriptures teach that he did. The BoM states the following:

  "Behold, I am Jesus Christ. I am the Father and the Son....
  And never have I showed myself unto _man whom I have created_, for
  never has man believed in me as thou hast....
  Behold, this body, which ye now behold, is the body of my spirit; and
  _man have I created_ after the body of my spirit... (Eth. 3:14-16)
  (emphasis added)

  "For it is I that taketh upon me the sins of the world; for it is _I
  that hath created them_... (Mos. 26:23) (emphasis added)

  "...the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of
  Jacob...is that same God who created the heavens and the earth, and
  all things that in them are.
  Behold _he created Adam_... (Mor. 9:11-12) (emphasis added)

        D&C, 93:10 states that "the worlds were made by him [Christ];
_men were made by him_; all things were made by him, and through him,
and of him." (emphasis added)

        Another error by Bruce R. McConkie involving "Jehovah" and his
creation is the belief that "Jehovah" had "many" pre-mortal spirits
helping him create. Included in this alleged group was Joseph Smith, Jr.

  "That he [Christ] was aided in the creation of this earth by "many of
  the noble and great" spirit children of the Father is evident from
  Abraham's writings. Unto those superior spirits Christ said: "We will
  go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these
  materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell." (Abra.
  3:22-24.) Michael or Adam was one of these. Enoch, Noah, Abraham,
  Moses, Peter, James, and John, Joseph Smith, and many other "noble and
  great" ones played a part in the great creative enterprise. (Doctrines
  of Salvation, vol. 1, pp. 74-75.) (Mormon Doctrine, p. 169)

        The Bible reveals the truth about this matter:

  "Thus saith the LORD [Jehovah], thy redeemer, and he that formed thee
  from the womb, I am the LORD [Jehovah] that maketh all things; that
  stretcheth forth the heavens alone; that spreadeth abroad the earth by
  myself. (Isa. 44:24)

  "Which alone spreadeth out the heavens, and treadeth upon the waves of
  the sea. (Job 9:8)

        "Jehovah," by Himself, created all things. He had no alleged
preexistent spirit helpers assisting Him.

        Regarding the Mormon 'Elohim," the Apostle McConkie stated:
"Elohim. plural word though it is, is also used as the exalted
name-title of God the Eternal Father, a usage that connotes his
supremacy and omnipotence, he being God above all Gods." (Mormon
Doctrine, p. 224) He also stated that "Jesus...is above all save the
Father only." (Promised Messiah, p. 363)

        The Bible states that the One who is God above all so-called
gods is the triune God "Jehovah."

  "For the LORD [Jehovah] is a great God [El], and a great King above
  all gods [Elohim]. (Ps. 95:3)

  "For thou, LORD [Jehovah], art high above all the earth: thou art
  exalted far above all gods [Elohim]. (Ps. 97:9)

  "Now I know that the LORD [Jehovah] is greater than all gods
  [Elohim]... (Exod. 18:11. See also Ps. 135:5; Deut. 10:17)

        If Mormon leaders are right when they say "Jehovah" is god the
son and "Elohim" is god the father, these verses from the Bible would be
teaching that the Mormon son is above his father. However, as McConkie
clearly stated, Mormons believe "Elohim" the father, not "Jehovah" the
son, is the "God above all Gods" -- that Jesus is above all except the
father; yet the Bible teaches that "Jehovah" is above all "Elohim."

        At a BYU Dev. on March 2, 1982, Bruce R. McConkie made the
following remark about praying to Jesus:

  "Another peril is that those so involved often begin to pray directly
  to Christ because of some special friendship they feel has been
  developed....
  This is plain sectarian nonsense. Our prayers are addressed to the
  Father, and to him only....
  ...Perfect prayer is addressed to the Father, in the name of the Son;
  it is uttered by the power of the Holy Ghost... (Our Relationship With
  the Lord, pp. 19-20)

        McConkie states on p. 335 of his book Promised Messiah that the
Mormons "pray to the Father, not the Son..." On p. 306 of the same book
McConkie states that "Christ [the Son] is Jehovah." This is important to
remember, because although McConkie said prayer is not to be offered to
the Mormon Christ who is "Jehovah," the Bible states repeatedly in the
OT that people prayed to "Jehovah," and He not only heard those prayers,
but He accepted them as valid requests. The following is but a small
sample of the vast number of times people prayed to "Jehovah."

  "In my distress I called upon the LORD [Jehovah], and cried unto my
  God [Elohim]: he heard my voice out of his temple, and my cry came
  before him, even into his ears. (Ps. 18:6)

  "And the LORD [Jehovah] said unto him, I have heard thy prayer and thy
  supplication, that thou hast made before me: I have hallowed this
  house, which thou hast built, to put my name there for ever; and mine
  eyes and mine heart shall be there perpetually. (1 Kin. 9:3)

  "And said unto Jeremiah the prophet, Let, we beseech thee, our
  supplication be accepted before thee, and pray for us unto the LORD
  [Jehovah] thy God [Elohim], even for all this remnant... (Jer. 42:2)

  "O LORD [Jehovah], I beseech thee, let now thine ear be attentive to
  the prayer of thy servant, and to the prayer of thy servants, who
  desire to fear thy name... (Neh. 1:11)

  "And it was so, that when Solomon had made an end of praying all this
  prayer and supplication unto the LORD [Jehovah], he arose from before
  the altar of the LORD [Jehovah], from kneeling on his knees with his
  hands spread up to heaven. (1 Kin. 8:54)

  "He went in therefore, and shut the door upon them twain, and prayed
  unto the LORD [Jehovah]. (2 Kin. 4:33)

  "Go, and say to Hezekiah, Thus saith the LORD [Jehovah], the God
  [Elohim] of David thy father, I have heard thy prayer, I have seen thy
  tears: behold, I will add unto thy days fifteen years. (Isa. 38:5)

  "I acknowledge my sin unto thee, and mine iniquity have I not hid. I
  said, I will confess my transgressions unto the LORD [Jehovah]; and
  thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin.
  For this shall every one that is godly pray unto thee in a time when
  thou mayest be found... (Ps. 32:5-6)

        Notice above in Ps. 32:6 that the "godly" pray to "Jehovah."
According to McConkie and other Mormon leaders, that is Christ the very
one to whom McConkie said people should not pray.

        The Bible reveals there is only one true "Elohim," and His name
is "Jehovah." All other "Elohim" are false. They are idols that cause
their followers to commit adultery against the true "Elohim" and
idolatry.

  "For the LORD [Jehovah] is great, and greatly to be praised: he is to
  be feared above all gods [Elohim].
  For all the gods [Elohim] of the nations are idols: but the LORD
  [Jehovah] made the heavens. (Ps. 96:4-5)

  "Thou shalt have no other gods [Elohim] before me. (Exod. 20:3)

  "Now I know that the LORD [Jehovah] is greater than all gods
  [Elohim]... (Exod. 18:11)

  "And it shall be, if thou do at all forget the LORD [Jehovah] thy God
  [Elohim], and walk after other gods [Elohim], and serve them, and
  worship them, I testify against you this day that ye shall surely
  perish. (Deut. 8:19)

  "Thou shalt make no covenant with them, nor with their gods [Elohim].
  They shall not dwell in thy land, lest they make thee sin against me:
  for if thou serve their gods [Elohim], it will surely be a snare unto
  thee. (Exod. 23:32- 33)

  "Take heed to yourselves, that your heart be not deceived, and ye turn
  aside, and serve other gods [Elohim], and worship them. (Deut. 11:16)

  "That ye come not among these nations, these that remain among you;
  neither make mention of the name of their gods [Elohim], nor cause to
  swear by them, neither serve them, nor bow yourselves unto them.
  (Josh. 23:7)

  "...neither walk after other gods [Elohim] to your hurt. (Jer. 7:6)

  "But the LORD [Jehovah] is the true God [Elohim], he is the living God
  [Elohim]... (Jer. 10:10)

  "And they forsook the LORD [Jehovah] God [Elohim] of their fathers,
  which brought them out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods
  [Elohim], of the gods [Elohim] of the people that were round about
  them, and bowed themselves unto them, and provoked the LORD [Jehovah]
  to anger. (Jud. 2:12)

  "Shall a man make gods [Elohim] unto himself, and they are no gods
  [Elohim]? Therefore, behold, I will this once cause them to know, I
  will cause them to know mine hand and my might; and they shall know
  that my name is the LORD [Jehovah]. ( Jer. 16:20-21)

  "And if it seem evil unto you to serve the LORD [Jehovah], choose you
  this day whom ye will serve; whether the gods [Elohim] which your
  fathers served that were on the other side of the flood, or the gods
  [Elohim] of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell: but as for me and my
  house, we will serve the LORD [Jehovah].
  And the people answered and said, God [Elohim] forbid that we should
  forsake the LORD [Jehovah], to serve other gods [Elohim]. (Josh.
  24:15-16)

        These verses teach that the only true, living "Elohim" in heaven
and on earth is "Jehovah" -- the triune God who made heaven and earth
and all therein.

        "Jehovah" is greater than any "Elohim," because all other
"Elohim" are idols. The reality behind them is demonic. (Deut. 32:17)
"Jehovah Elohim" has given explicit warnings and guidelines regarding
these false "Elohim." He told His people not to have any "Elohim" but
Him. He told the people that if they left Him for the false "Elohim,"
those "Elohim" would be a snare to them, and they would be hurt and
would perish. He warned the people to "take heed" that their "heart be
not deceived" into worshiping, serving, swearing by, and making
covenants with false "Elohim." "Jehovah Elohim" told His people He would
eventually judge all false "Elohim" and their followers.

        Despite these warnings and guidelines, "Elohim's" covenant
people forsook Him and believed in and worshiped the false "Elohim's" of
the people they came in contact with. Ju. 10:6 states that "the children
of Israel did evil again in the sight of the LORD [Jehovah] and served
Baalim, and Ashtaroth, and the gods [Elohim] of Syria, and the gods
[Elohim] of Zidon, and the gods [Elohim] of Moab, and the gods [Elohim]
of the children of Ammon, and the gods [Elohim] of the Philistines, and
forsook the LORD [Jehovah], and served not him."

        This examination has shown that the "Elohim" of Mormonism, like
the "Elohim" in Ju. 10:6 is not the true "Jehovah Elohim." Therefore,
the people who leave the true "Elohim" for the Mormon "Elohim" will do
"evil...in the sight of the LORD [Jehovah]."

        Although McConkie attacked Christians for their belief in a
triune God who is Spirit and for their belief that God the Father
[Jehovah] sent His Son into the world, these beliefs are true. God is
triune; He is Spirit; He is "Jehovah;" and He did send His Son into the
world to redeem mankind.

        It is obvious from this examination that it is not the
Christians who "thrash around in...darkness" about who "Elohim" and
"Jehovah" are. One wonders what "Holy Writ" McConkie had in mind when he
stated that it attests to the fact that "Elohim is the Father, and that
Jehovah is the Son." He certainly did not mean the Bible which teaches
that the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are all the one "Jehovah Elohim."
He apparently did not mean the D&C either, because chapter 109, verses
1,4,9-10, 14,19,22,24,29,34,42,47,56,68,77 refer to the Father as
"Jehovah."

Summary

        Obviously Joseph Fielding Smith's statement that the Mormons
"have a clear and perfect understanding of the nature of God" (Doctrines
of Salvation, 1:279) is not accurate. The Mormon gods are not the true
God as Mormonism claims, but are idols which cause their followers to
commit adultery against God and idolatry.

        In answer to Jesus' question, "But whom say ye that I am,"
Mormons say Jesus is someone different from the Jesus who is revealed in
the Bible and whom the apostles preached. Therefore, anyone trusting in
the Mormon Jesus is believing in "another Jesus" whom Paul warned about.

        Bernard P. Brockbank, of the First Quorum of the Seventy,
admitted in the May 1977 issue of The Ensign, a Mormon publication, that
the Mormon Jesus is different from the Christian Jesus. He stated that
"it is true that many of the Christian churches worship a different
Jesus Christ than is worshipped by the Mormons or The Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints." (p. 26)

        The people who believe in the Mormon Jesus are committing
adultery against God and idolatry. They do not have the Son; therefore,
they do not have the Father, and they do not have eternal life. As the
Apostle Bruce R. McConkie rightly stated: "Salvation comes only by
worshiping the true God." (Promised Messiah, p. 163) McConkie also
rightly stated that "the mere worship of a god who has the proper
scriptural names does not assure one that he is worshiping the true and
living God," because the "true names of Deity" can be applied to "false
concepts of God." (Mormon Doctrine, p. 270) Remember that the Apostle
Stephen L. Richards admitted that Joseph Smith, Jr., gave "a new
conception of God and the Godhead." (Contributions of Joseph Smith, p.
1)

        It is important for the people who have left the true triune God
revealed in the Bible to repent and return to Him. They must forsake the
sins of idolatry and adultery which they are committing in Mormonism.
The Bible says:

  "...all that forsake thee shall be ashamed, and they that depart from
  me shall be written in the earth, because they have forsaken the LORD
  [Jehovah], the fountain of living waters. (Jer. 17:13)

  "And it shall be, if thou do at all forget the LORD [Jehovah] thy God
  [Elohim], and walk after other gods [Elohim], and serve them, and
  worship them, I testify against you this day that ye shall surely
  perish. (Deut. 8:19)

  "Thou shalt make no covenant with...their gods [Elohim]. (Exod. 23:32)

  "...Put away the strange gods [Elohim] that are among you, and be
  clean, and change your garments. (Gen. 35:2)

  "...flee from idolatry. (1 Cor. 10:14)

        It is necessary that Christians heed the warnings of the Bible.
If they do, they will not fall into the sins of adultery against God and
idolatry. Remember, to know the "only true God" is eternal life. (John
17:3)

  "...their gods [Elohim] shall be a snare unto you." (Ju. 2:3. See also
  Exod. 23:32-33)




========== END RAW ============================

Preprocessed:
============ START PREPROCESSED =================
 robert weiss orthodox christian       robert keep
make refer orthodox belief say thing like held
kermit thread exact bodi theolog draw call
orthodox hold luke meant said meant whenev person
interpret biblic passag challeng respons seem one
need mere look bibl order see truth see biblic
thing differ simpli assum one realli understand
rick think safe say robert person understand bibl
leadership lds church histor never let consid
person interpret see much trust put orthodox
mormon could never confus orthodox christian  one
attack christian mormon apostl bruce mcconki said
thrash around dark tri identifi elohim jehovah
show relationship promis messiah also said
christian wrong believ jehovah suprem deiti god
father christ came mortal begotten son mcconki
state mormon believ today truth matter said elohim
father jehovah son  thus awar far astray religi
intellectualist gone defin three one god come
surpris learn thrash around dark tri identifi
elohim jehovah show relationship promis messiah
sectarian even believ jehovah suprem deiti whose
son came mortal begotten concept god spirit
misinform god heaven untru fact attest holi writ
elohim father jehovah son born mortal lord jesus
christ promis messiah promis messiah  notic
mcconki said christian wrong three one god belief
god spirit understand elohim jehovah examin
mcconki attack valid shall read statement mcconki
mormon sourc concern word elohim jehovah mcconki
state  chief design christ preserv old testament
ancient work publish exalt name titl jehovah
promis messiah  elohim plural word though also use
exalt name titl god etern father usag connot
supremaci omnipot god god mormon doctrin  agre
mcconki question elohim jehovah apostl jame talmag
state  elohim understood use restor church jesus
christ name titl god etern father whose firstborn
son spirit jehovah begotten flesh jesus christ
jesus christ  doctrin exposit first presid twelv
apostl mormon church state god etern father design
exalt name titl elohim articl faith christ
preexist antemort unembodi state known jehovah
articl faith  today mormon leader teach elohim
refer god father jehovah refer christ mcconki
attack christian say jehovah refer father stress
two name titl chang around christ call elohim
father call jehovah father elohim jehovah jehovah
christ christ jehovah one person promis messiah
kjv bibl hebrew word elohim use refer true god
fals god goddess judg israel refer true god elohim
translat capit refer fals god goddess judg israel
translat small translat four time judg exod judg
sam twice mighti gen exod angel god mal great gen
great sam  word jehovah tradit pronunci tetragramm
yhwh yhvh vowel point taken word adonai mani peopl
believ true pronunci tetragramm yahweh yahveh
howev sinc jehovah rather yahweh word use mormon
section also use jehovah instead yahweh examin
valid claim mormon leader regard name jehovah
unlik elohim never use fals god person name triun
god bibl kjv jehovah render primarili lord sometim
god rare lord  understand someth word elohim
jehovah use mormon leader shall consid apostl
mcconki attack christian believ father jehovah tri
prove jehovah refer exclus christ mcconki cite
sever vers bibl vers mcconki interpret examin see
whether right rememb mcconki said father jehovah
elohim first exampl shall consid involv mcconki
interpret vers state  spake david tongu touch holi
spirit testifi lord said unto lord sit thou right
hand make thine enemi thi footstool two lord
involv one speak one greater one make provis
triumph glori messag contain messian propheci
think christ lord ask certain detractor toward end
mortal ministri whose son christ son god someon
els born divin parent men mortal son mortal father
descend david matter great pride jew answer son
david david son truli much lord irrefut logic
complet discomfitur ask doth david spirit call
lord say lord said unto lord sit thou right hand
till make thine enemi thi footstool david call
lord son son david great king act inspir call lord
worship might add lord one spake unto david lord
question jesus interpret word psalm say mean
father said unto son elohim said unto jehovah sit
thou right hand mortal ministri rais etern glori
exalt continu sit right hand forev promis messiah
emphasi ad  agre statement mcconki follow remark
mormon pamphlet mormon think christ read lord
elohim father said unto lord jehovah son bracket
origin  mcconki clear state elohim father speak
jehovah son psalm howev one look hebrew word
translat lord becom appar either first lord father
els father jehovah either way mcconki wrong psalm
read  lord jehovah said unto lord adon sit thou
right hand make thine enemi thi footstool  first
lord vers jehovah mormon say christ father second
lord hebrew word adon singular adonai mean master
lord first lord father second lord son father
jehovah son adon howev father jehovah mcconki
claim first lord jehovah son adon obvious father
jehovah psalm son adon  anoth exampl involv isa
mcconki state follow  lord call thee righteous
isaiah quot father say christ hold thine hand keep
thee give thee coven peopl light gentil isa promis
messiah emphasi ad  mcconki said father speak
christ passag read  lord jehovah call thee
righteous hold thine hand keep thee give thee
coven peopl light gentil isa  accord mcconki lord
refer father thine thee refer christ howev lord
speak jehovah mean either mcconki wrong speak els
father jehovah  anoth exampl involv vers mcconki
state  psalm say see laugh scorn shoot lip shake
head say trust lord deliv let deliv see delight
fulfil jesus hung cross found word chief priest
mock scribe elder said save other cannot save king
israel let come cross believ trust god let deliv
said son god thiev also crucifi cast teeth matt
promis messiah emphasi ad  read follow  see laugh
scorn shoot lip shake head say trust lord jehovah
deliv let deliv see delight  mcconki said vers
fulfil jesus hung cross mean person scorn vers
christ lord trust jehovah father  anoth exampl
involv regard mcconki state follow  refer conniv
conspir plot incid lord arrest judici trial
propheci took counsel togeth devis take away life
role juda conspiraci psalmist say mine familiar
friend trust eat bread hath lift heel promis
messiah  apostl mcconki said psalm refer christ
arrest judici trial shall first consid mcconki
quot vers vers also includ give complet understand
matter  heard slander mani fear everi side took
counsel togeth devis take away life trust thee
lord jehovah said thou art god elohim  mcconki
said vers refer jesus christ vers goe tell christ
trust lord call god elohim mormon teach god jesus
elohim father vers howev reveal elohim man jesus
jehovah father  mcconki quot one vers howev two
vers consid examin  yea mine familiar friend trust
eat bread hath lift heel thou lord jehovah merci
unto rais requit  mcconki state vers refer juda
role christ death sinc juda familiar friend lift
heel pronoun mine vers must refer christ notic
begin vers chang pronoun thou refer lord jehovah
pronoun refer christ use mean christ speak jehovah
father vers  anoth exampl involv mcconki follow
remark   one great messian propheci spoken mouth
david say lord hath sworn repent thou art priest
ever order melchizedek promis messiah   mcconki
admit messian propheci involv christ question vers
refer christ  lord jehovah hath sworn repent thou
art priest ever order melchizedek  lord jehovah
refer christ mcconki right jesus jehovah father
lord refer christ one address priest forev order
melchizedek bibl reveal one refer jesus christ heb
therefor lord jehovah father  anoth exampl involv
isa vers mcconki state  aton sacrific futur
messiah isaiah said lord laid iniqu pleas lord
bruis promis messiah emphasi ad  mcconki right
said vers refer aton sacrific futur messiah howev
fail mention also prove father jehovah vers read
like sheep gone astray turn everi one way lord
jehovah hath laid christ iniqu vers read yet pleas
lord jehovah bruis christ  obvious lord laid
christ iniqu bruis god father call jehovah vers
rememb mcconki state sectarian even believ jehovah
suprem deiti christ came mortal begotten son call
concept misinform untru prove mcconki misinform
believ untruth two scriptur refer sam examin
mcconki state follow regard scriptur  midst passag
clear messian lord say seed david father shall son
sam second psalm whole also clear messian occur
statement thou art son day begotten thee paul quot
statement hebrew say propheci christ come son god
promis messiah  mcconki cite heb show sam refer
christ come son god sinc mcconki first referenc
sam examin howev along vers vers also includ  sinc
time command judg peopl israel caus thee rest
thine enemi also lord jehovah telleth thee make
thee hous thi day fulfil thou shalt sleep thi
father set thi seed thee shall proceed thi bowel
establish kingdom shall build hous name stablish
throne kingdom ever father shall son sam  vers
teach lord jehovah son messiah second exampl
mcconki cite examin includ vers notic lord jehovah
say thou art son day begotten thee  declar decre
lord jehovah hath said unto thou art son day
begotten thee ask shall give thee heathen thine
inherit uttermost part earth thi possess  mcconki
said vers scriptur clear messian acknowledg teach
christ come son god will acknowledg howev scriptur
also teach father jehovah sectarian believ jehovah
suprem deiti whose son jesus christ begotten right
belief  anoth exampl involv mic vers mcconki state
follow  truli lord act mortal ministri truli
written shall stand feed strength lord majesti
name lord god shall great unto end earth mic
promis messiah emphasi ad  accord mcconki pronoun
begin mic refer christ mortal ministri lord god
mic read  christ shall stand feed strength lord
jehovah majesti name lord jehovah god elohim shall
great unto end earth  obvious lord jesus christ
jehovah father refer jehovah elohim  anoth exampl
involv isa vers mcconki state follow  number
messian passag speak lord anoint signifi chosen
one consecr set apart ministri mission jesus appli
passag quot isaiah propheci lord hath anoint
preach good tide unto meek isa say day scriptur
fulfil ear luke promis messiah emphasi ad  first
sourc mcconki quot read follow  king earth set
ruler take counsel togeth lord jehovah anoint
mcconki said anoint one christ true jehovah
jehovah alway christ anoint one obvious jehovah
refer god father anoint inde refer christ second
sourc mcconki cite isa state  spirit lord adonai
god jehovah upon lord jehovah hath anoint preach
good tide unto meek hath sent bind brokenheart
proclaim liberti captiv open prison bound  one
anoint preach bind proclaim open jesus christ one
anoint vers say lord jehovah anoint face problem
jehovah refer father christ jesus anoint someon
mcconki point jesus appli passag therefor jehovah
anoint christ god father  exampl could cite show
mcconki mormon leader wrong say god father jehovah
howev enough expos error  mormon claim jesus
jehovah elohim true jesus jehovah follow scriptur
prove fact  thus saith lord jehovah king israel
redeem lord jehovah host first last besid god isa
jesus said first last liveth dead rev  saith lord
jehovah shall look upon pierc shall mourn one
mourneth son zech behold christ cometh cloud everi
eye shall see also pierc rev  lord jehovah thi god
holi one israel isa  deni holi one christ act
shall come pass whosoev shall call name lord
jehovah shall deliv joel name jesus christ
nazareth none name heaven given among men wherebi
must save act  behold lord god jehovah come strong
hand reward isa behold christ come quick reward
rev   lord jehovah god shall come saint thee zech
come lord jesus christ saint thess  lord jehovah
shepherd jesus said good shepherd john  saith lord
god jehovah seek lost ezek son man come seek save
lost luke  lord jehovah thi god holi one israel
thi saviour isa look bless hope glorious appear
great god saviour jesus christ tit see also jer
rev mal heb kin john isa tim matt prov rev  mormon
right say jesus jehovah wrong say elohim bibl
reveal jehovah true elohim other fals rememb
jehovah person name triun god reveal bibl  consid
biblic quot show jehovah elohim two separ god
mormon claim let first note god father christ
address jehovah elohim holi spirit  whereof holi
ghost said coven make day saith lord put law heart
mind write sin iniqu rememb heb emphasi holi ghost
said ad behold day come saith lord jehovah make
new coven hous israel hous judah put law inward
part write heart god elohim shall peopl forgiv
iniqu rememb sin jer emphasi ad  propheci came old
time man holi men god spake move holi ghost pet
emphasi holi ghost ad spirit lord jehovah spake
word tongu sam see also heb  let continu biblic
quot show jehovah elohim two separ god mormon
claim  lord jehovah saw mose turn asid see god
elohim call unto midst bush said mose mose said
bruce mcconki acknowledg christ voic spoke mose
burn bush promis messiah lord jehovah said mose
said unto god elohim behold come unto children
israel shall say unto god elohim father hath sent
unto shall say name shall say unto god elohim said
unto mose said thus shalt thou say unto children
israel hath sent unto  god elohim said moreov unto
mose thus shalt thou say unto children israel lord
jehovah god elohim father god elohim abraham god
elohim isaac god elohim jacob hath sent unto name
ever memori unto generat exod   god elohim spake
unto mose said unto lord jehovah exod  lord
jehovah none els god elohim besid gird thee though
thou hast known isa  lord jehovah true god elohim
live god elohim everlast king jer  thus saith lord
jehovah king israel redeem lord jehovah host first
last besid god elohim isa  therefor caus captiv
beyond damascus saith lord jehovah whose name god
elohim host amo  behold heaven heaven heaven lord
jehovah thi god elohim earth also therein deut
wherefor thou art great lord jehovah god elohim
none like thee neither god elohim besid thee
accord heard ear sam  said unto hebrew fear lord
jehovah god elohim heaven hath made sea dri land
jon  god elohim save lord jehovah rock save god
elohim  bless nation whose god elohim lord jehovah
see also  hast thou known hast thou heard everlast
god elohim lord jehovah creator end earth fainteth
neither weari search understand isa  mighti god
elohim even lord jehovah hath spoken call earth
rise sun unto go thereof  sing unto god elohim
sing prais name estol rideth upon heaven name jah
rejoic regard word jah bruce mcconki state jah
hebrew yah contract form jehovah jahveh yahweh
name refer christ god israel mormon doctrin  david
aros went peopl baal judah bring thenc ark god
elohim whose name call name lord jehovah host
dwelleth cherubim sam  great mighti god elohim
lord jehovah host name jer  god elohim make like
wheel stubbl wind fill face shame seek thi name
lord jehovah men know thou whose name alon jehovah
art high earth  bibl clear teach jehovah elohim
fact elohim true live mighti great everlast elohim
elohim israel kingdom earth heaven creator made
heaven host earth dwell thereon jehovah name
elohim host amo   jehovah elohim elohim jehovah
bibl reveal elohim name jah jehovah jehovah host
sam jer nation whose elohim jehovah bless clear
jehovah elohim mormon  anoth mormon error regard
elohim jehovah belief elohim jehovah father spirit
includ jesus articl faith apostl jame talmag
doctrin exposit first presid twelv apostl state
god etern father elohim liter parent spirit human
race doctrin exposit also state explicit jesus
christ father spirit taken yet shall take bodi
upon earth one son son daughter elohim  apostl
talmag state elohim name titl god etern father
whose firstborn son spirit jehovah jesus christ
apostl bruce mcconki state follow matter jehovah
christ fact creat earth form plant anim life face
thereof came place man earth chang creator father
becam person involv thing creat son use power
deleg father except man spirit flesh man creat
father deleg author crown creatur creation concern
promis messiah emphasi ad  mormon leader claim
jehovah christ creat either man spirit bodi
maintain mormon elohim father creat man spirit
bodi bibl reveal truth creat man  mose spake unto
lord jehovah say let lord jehovah god elohim
spirit flesh set man congreg num see also emphasi
ad  lord jehovah stretcheth forth heaven layeth
foundat earth formeth spirit man within zech
emphasi ad  lord jehovah made soul jer  contend
ever neither alway wroth spirit fail soul made
saith lord jehovah isa emphasi soul made ad
behold lord jehovah god elohim flesh jer emphasi
ad  thus saith lord jehovah thi redeem form thee
womb lord jehovah maketh thing isa emphasi ad
thus saith lord jehovah made earth creat man upon
isa emphasi ad  god elohim creat man upon earth
unto thee shew thou mightest know lord jehovah god
elohim none els besid deut   thus saith god lord
jehovah spread forth earth cometh giveth breath
unto peopl upon spirit walk therein isa  thus
saith lord jehovah host god elohim israel made
earth man beast upon ground jer emphasi ad  bibl
reveal jehovah elohim spirit flesh flesh form
spirit man within made soul form womb inde creat
man  mormon leader right say jesus jehovah wrong
say creat man right say father one creat man wrong
say jehovah  although mormon leader teach jesus
creat man mormon scriptur teach bom state follow
behold jesus christ father son never show unto man
creat never man believ thou hast behold bodi
behold bodi spirit man creat bodi spirit eth
emphasi ad  taketh upon sin world hath creat mos
emphasi ad  god abraham god isaac god jacob god
creat heaven earth thing behold creat adam mor
emphasi ad  state world made christ men made thing
made emphasi ad  anoth error bruce mcconki involv
jehovah creation belief jehovah mani pre mortal
spirit help creat includ alleg group joseph smith
christ aid creation earth mani nobl great spirit
children father evid abraham write unto superior
spirit christ said space take materi make earth
whereon dwell abra michael adam one enoch noah
abraham mose peter jame john joseph smith mani
nobl great one play part great creativ enterpris
doctrin salvat vol mormon doctrin  bibl reveal
truth matter  thus saith lord jehovah thi redeem
form thee womb lord jehovah maketh thing
stretcheth forth heaven alon spreadeth abroad
earth isa  alon spreadeth heaven treadeth upon
wave sea job  jehovah creat thing alleg preexist
spirit helper assist  regard mormon elohim apostl
mcconki state elohim plural word though also use
exalt name titl god etern father usag connot
supremaci omnipot god god mormon doctrin also
state jesus save father promis messiah  bibl state
one god call god triun god jehovah  lord jehovah
great god great king god elohim  thou lord jehovah
art high earth thou art exalt far god elohim  know
lord jehovah greater god elohim exod see also deut
mormon leader right say jehovah god son elohim god
father vers bibl teach mormon son father howev
mcconki clear state mormon believ elohim father
jehovah son god god jesus except father yet bibl
teach jehovah elohim  byu dev march bruce mcconki
made follow remark pray jesus  anoth peril involv
often begin pray direct christ special friendship
feel develop plain sectarian nonsens prayer
address father perfect prayer address father name
son utter power holi ghost relationship lord
mcconki state book promis messiah mormon pray
father son book mcconki state christ son jehovah
import rememb although mcconki said prayer offer
mormon christ jehovah bibl state repeat peopl pray
jehovah heard prayer accept valid request follow
small sampl vast number time peopl pray jehovah
distress call upon lord jehovah cri unto god
elohim heard voic templ cri came even ear  lord
jehovah said unto heard thi prayer thi supplic
thou hast made hallow hous thou hast built put
name ever mine eye mine heart shall perpetu kin
said unto jeremiah prophet let beseech thee
supplic accept thee pray unto lord jehovah thi god
elohim even remnant jer  lord jehovah beseech thee
let thine ear attent prayer thi servant prayer thi
servant desir fear thi name neh  solomon made end
pray prayer supplic unto lord jehovah aros altar
lord jehovah kneel knee hand spread heaven kin
went therefor shut door upon twain pray unto lord
jehovah kin  say hezekiah thus saith lord jehovah
god elohim david thi father heard thi prayer seen
thi tear behold add unto thi day fifteen year isa
acknowledg sin unto thee mine iniqu hid said
confess transgress unto lord jehovah thou
forgavest iniqu sin shall everi one god pray unto
thee time thou mayest found  notic god pray
jehovah accord mcconki mormon leader christ one
mcconki said peopl pray  bibl reveal one true
elohim name jehovah elohim fals idol caus follow
commit adulteri true elohim idolatri  lord jehovah
great great prais fear god elohim god elohim
nation idol lord jehovah made heaven  thou shalt
god elohim exod  know lord jehovah greater god
elohim exod  shall thou forget lord jehovah thi
god elohim walk god elohim serv worship testifi
day shall sure perish deut  thou shalt make coven
god elohim shall dwell thi land lest make thee sin
thou serv god elohim sure snare unto thee exod
take heed heart deceiv turn asid serv god elohim
worship deut  come among nation remain among
neither make mention name god elohim caus swear
neither serv bow unto josh  neither walk god
elohim hurt jer  lord jehovah true god elohim live
god elohim jer  forsook lord jehovah god elohim
father brought land egypt follow god elohim god
elohim peopl round bow unto provok lord jehovah
anger jud  shall man make god elohim unto god
elohim therefor behold caus know caus know mine
hand might shall know name lord jehovah jer  seem
evil unto serv lord jehovah choos day serv whether
god elohim father serv side flood god elohim
amorit whose land dwell hous serv lord jehovah
peopl answer said god elohim forbid forsak lord
jehovah serv god elohim josh   vers teach true
live elohim heaven earth jehovah triun god made
heaven earth therein  jehovah greater elohim
elohim idol realiti behind demon deut jehovah
elohim given explicit warn guidelin regard fals
elohim told peopl elohim told peopl left fals
elohim elohim snare hurt perish warn peopl take
heed heart deceiv worship serv swear make coven
fals elohim jehovah elohim told peopl eventu judg
fals elohim follow  despit warn guidelin elohim
coven peopl forsook believ worship fals elohim
peopl came contact state children israel evil
sight lord jehovah serv baalim ashtaroth god
elohim syria god elohim zidon god elohim moab god
elohim children ammon god elohim philistin forsook
lord jehovah serv  examin shown elohim mormon like
elohim true jehovah elohim therefor peopl leav
true elohim mormon elohim evil sight lord jehovah
although mcconki attack christian belief triun god
spirit belief god father jehovah sent son world
belief true god triun spirit jehovah send son
world redeem mankind  obvious examin christian
thrash around dark elohim jehovah one wonder holi
writ mcconki mind state attest fact elohim father
jehovah son certain mean bibl teach father son
holi spirit one jehovah elohim appar mean either
chapter vers refer father jehovah  summari
obvious joseph field smith statement mormon clear
perfect understand natur god doctrin salvat accur
mormon god true god mormon claim idol caus follow
commit adulteri god idolatri  answer jesus
question say mormon say jesus someon differ jesus
reveal bibl apostl preach therefor anyon trust
mormon jesus believ anoth jesus paul warn  bernard
brockbank first quorum seventi admit issu ensign
mormon public mormon jesus differ christian jesus
state true mani christian church worship differ
jesus christ worship mormon church jesus christ
latter day saint  peopl believ mormon jesus commit
adulteri god idolatri son therefor father etern
life apostl bruce mcconki right state salvat come
worship true god promis messiah mcconki also right
state mere worship god proper scriptur name assur
one worship true live god true name deiti appli
fals concept god mormon doctrin rememb apostl
stephen richard admit joseph smith gave new
concept god godhead contribut joseph smith
import peopl left true triun god reveal bibl
repent return must forsak sin idolatri adulteri
commit mormon bibl say  forsak thee shall asham
depart shall written earth forsaken lord jehovah
fountain live water jer  shall thou forget lord
jehovah thi god elohim walk god elohim serv
worship testifi day shall sure perish deut  thou
shalt make coven god elohim exod  put away strang
god elohim among clean chang garment gen  flee
idolatri cor  necessari christian heed warn bibl
fall sin adulteri god idolatri rememb know true
god etern life john   god elohim shall snare unto
see also exod
========== END PREPROCESSED =====================


Feature vector (sorted, non-zero values only):
Term, Index, Value:
jehovah, 4844, 0.613051331087
elohim, 3051, 0.496551377834
lord, 5347, 0.291356777397
god, 3926, 0.227918798371
mcconki, 5570, 0.19542297354
father, 3404, 0.153762811391
christ, 1729, 0.135277743109
unto, 9321, 0.134312555254
mormon, 5863, 0.102805664688
son, 8132, 0.0992315847082
thee, 8836, 0.0855594905592
thou, 8886, 0.0799655139513
thi, 8862, 0.0795647742953
vers, 9476, 0.0785826911568
jesus, 4859, 0.0744157034694
shall, 7846, 0.0742708124818
spirit, 8238, 0.0658847608619
said, 7583, 0.0595717123864
messiah, 5653, 0.0583670256715
isa, 4774, 0.0542416088524
emphasi, 3075, 0.0524368206038
state, 8342, 0.051913599267
refer, 7213, 0.0464834733195
hath, 4204, 0.0441571814415
jer, 4850, 0.0427494563698
saith, 7586, 0.0420911019933
israel, 4791, 0.0413269400781
bibl, 1071, 0.0410487157863
promis, 6913, 0.0381930115253
behold, 1002, 0.0375635396888
anoint, 529, 0.0369679194625
earth, 2956, 0.0368365924649
ad, 257, 0.0366716386028
say, 7653, 0.0361406852107
apostl, 574, 0.0358797863635
heaven, 4229, 0.0356672714225
man, 5471, 0.0323087999352
true, 9121, 0.0319181006713
holi, 4344, 0.0312889170813
mortal, 5870, 0.0307862227167
creat, 2217, 0.0298734766564
sam, 7599, 0.0274669060305
mose, 5873, 0.0272459484972
pray, 6800, 0.0266868750598
thine, 8868, 0.0264943088649
serv, 7810, 0.0258013370942
fals, 3372, 0.0251815486096
worship, 9847, 0.0250555163204
reveal, 7352, 0.0248136276609
begotten, 996, 0.0246452796417
great, 4016, 0.024349299335
trust, 9130, 0.024101279506
follow, 3578, 0.0240621705298
coven, 2193, 0.0240520582819
peopl, 6530, 0.0231730322914
prayer, 6801, 0.0230371798181
teach, 8729, 0.0226490430307
involv, 4750, 0.0221723215206
doctrin, 2787, 0.0221507902181
messian, 5654, 0.0215646196865
examin, 3257, 0.0208184663488
word, 9829, 0.0203949485473
iniqu, 4646, 0.0202265213709
host, 4386, 0.0200239184296
art, 660, 0.0199025184273
david, 2397, 0.0197002077091
etern, 3205, 0.0195239941927
leader, 5173, 0.0194469298083
spake, 8179, 0.019028492931
right, 7399, 0.0185578465283
psalm, 6957, 0.018436875215
exalt, 3256, 0.0180390437114
come, 1923, 0.0176909561289
believ, 1009, 0.0175837922921
scriptur, 7725, 0.0174246364463
propheci, 6926, 0.0173464979164
christian, 1732, 0.0173219326228
hast, 4197, 0.0170495944919
flesh, 3537, 0.0167924851182
make, 5459, 0.0163214684622
bruce, 1347, 0.0161921404935
sin, 7976, 0.0157064584946
shalt, 7848, 0.0156455437048
hebrew, 4233, 0.0154976025293
howev, 4406, 0.01542307769
adulteri, 284, 0.0154032997761
belief, 1008, 0.015134161383
king, 5024, 0.0148975086056
hand, 4145, 0.014752024101
exampl, 3258, 0.014752024101
therefor, 8855, 0.0145292988323
day, 2402, 0.0144726079909
rev, 7351, 0.0144475152649
anoth, 533, 0.0144189978348
deliv, 2507, 0.0141115612855
redeem, 7196, 0.0139937375985
ghost, 3864, 0.0139937375985
quot, 7045, 0.0139701480392
titl, 8953, 0.013706883231
mic, 5678, 0.013153678883
passag, 6449, 0.0130159961284
let, 5225, 0.0128443827823
ministri, 5742, 0.0127984332323
yahweh, 9927, 0.012685661954
jah, 4817, 0.012685661954
speak, 8192, 0.0125405384401
clear, 1803, 0.0124839889399
deiti, 2495, 0.0123903556546
bodi, 1194, 0.0123329731765
idol, 4489, 0.0123226398208
orthodox, 6303, 0.012213412071
judg, 4920, 0.0120790281151
sectarian, 7758, 0.012026029141
rememb, 7269, 0.0119824274268
wrong, 9869, 0.0119428280409
hous, 4396, 0.0118432313838
regard, 7224, 0.0116623175823
caus, 1569, 0.0115250864053
came, 1472, 0.0114752834611
save, 7646, 0.0114588742185
joseph, 4893, 0.0113888710547
attack, 761, 0.0112260987367
dwell, 2934, 0.0111949900788
read, 7135, 0.0111425882711
claim, 1782, 0.0110910089735
children, 1707, 0.0110084218947
person, 6562, 0.0108405567656
heard, 4224, 0.0108170481791
abraham, 189, 0.0107681615445
warn, 9643, 0.0106805655805
mighti, 5709, 0.0106475986423
suprem, 8580, 0.0105353572657
cite, 1774, 0.0105270158105
obvious, 6185, 0.0103178264146
sit, 7993, 0.0103164587615
heart, 4225, 0.0103164587615
preach, 6803, 0.0102387465858
church, 1746, 0.0102188287322
understand, 9246, 0.0102079992236
enemi, 3100, 0.0101507870733
smith, 8064, 0.00995125921365
thrash, 8889, 0.00986525916226
melchizedek, 5622, 0.00986525916226
forsak, 3615, 0.00986525916226
exposit, 3312, 0.00986525916226
form, 3610, 0.00978017694867
ear, 2948, 0.00977072965684
men, 5629, 0.00976505106577
priest, 6860, 0.00970431820357
besid, 1051, 0.00966583293147
interpret, 4720, 0.00959447233367
scorn, 7710, 0.0095142464655
perish, 6548, 0.0095142464655
misinform, 5761, 0.0095142464655
heed, 4235, 0.0095142464655
everlast, 3236, 0.0095142464655
counsel, 2179, 0.0095142464655
fulfil, 3717, 0.00946286042204
sent, 7793, 0.00923151539786
acknowledg, 239, 0.00920408527746
statement, 8343, 0.00917368491227
bruis, 1348, 0.00901952185572
use, 9363, 0.0089824414262
live, 5310, 0.00894730096897
soul, 8149, 0.00893969059467
thing, 8869, 0.0088888306636
heel, 4236, 0.0088314362883
mean, 5595, 0.0087983155303
commit, 1945, 0.00864307991478
consid, 2059, 0.0085585618302
testifi, 8815, 0.00852479724593
isaiah, 4776, 0.00852479724593
fear, 3417, 0.00848187341501
juda, 4916, 0.00839624255909
gen, 3815, 0.00839624255909
greater, 4017, 0.00839229915822
translat, 9057, 0.00820068327418
biblic, 1072, 0.0080764355354
matter, 5553, 0.00789156871512
laid, 5095, 0.00767905993938
truth, 9132, 0.0075670806915
notic, 6120, 0.00751543017272
concept, 2002, 0.00751543017272
life, 5260, 0.00748901714175
luke, 5386, 0.00743421339273
creator, 2221, 0.00743421339273
bless, 1155, 0.00737997597389
accord, 219, 0.00730882013009
act, 249, 0.00726464941617
prove, 6947, 0.00722164634791
saint, 7585, 0.00718433532959
repent, 7287, 0.00713996167521
forth, 3616, 0.00713996167521
remark, 7266, 0.00709714531653
second, 7753, 0.00707717020543
els, 3053, 0.0070302653961
end, 3091, 0.00701048985909
know, 5052, 0.00700843406206
includ, 4579, 0.00699741220397
fact, 3350, 0.00697795207113
salvat, 7597, 0.00697703454587
familiar, 3379, 0.00693948878294
land, 5104, 0.00692503566802
mani, 5479, 0.00692202229279
walk, 9617, 0.00691328937374
kingdom, 5025, 0.00690306395809
lift, 5264, 0.00679989202058
relationship, 7248, 0.00676735299844
writ, 9864, 0.00657683944151
supremaci, 8581, 0.00657683944151
stretcheth, 8444, 0.00657683944151
firstborn, 3500, 0.00657683944151
cometh, 1928, 0.00657683944151
astray, 723, 0.00657683944151
evil, 3247, 0.00656105603297
seek, 7766, 0.00650799806422
nation, 5962, 0.00640481571397
untru, 9323, 0.006342830977
pronunci, 6918, 0.006342830977
plural, 6699, 0.006342830977
mal, 5461, 0.006342830977
judici, 4923, 0.006342830977
deleg, 2501, 0.006342830977
address, 264, 0.0063213689774
valid, 9411, 0.00625140800999
cross, 2241, 0.0061898752569
creation, 2218, 0.00617003512841
tide, 8922, 0.00616131991042
omnipot, 6236, 0.00616131991042
kjv, 5036, 0.00616131991042
goddess, 3928, 0.00616131991042
john, 4878, 0.00615159039694
truli, 9127, 0.00605732665155
jame, 4820, 0.00603951405756
majesti, 5457, 0.00601301457048
judah, 4917, 0.00601301457048
connot, 2048, 0.00601301457048
captiv, 1508, 0.00601301457048
admit, 276, 0.00592161569189
alon, 437, 0.00588992193547
shepherd, 7877, 0.0058876241922
midst, 5702, 0.0058876241922
bread, 1282, 0.0058876241922
attest, 767, 0.0058876241922
chang, 1650, 0.00584523804309
set, 7815, 0.00582712815637
dark, 2365, 0.00578506005168
twelv, 9168, 0.00577900610597
thereof, 8856, 0.00577900610597
isaac, 4775, 0.00577900610597
delight, 2505, 0.00577900610597
bow, 1253, 0.00577900610597
aros, 651, 0.00577900610597
order, 6281, 0.00575090120098
guidelin, 4084, 0.00568319816395
togeth, 8969, 0.00564934909202
swear, 8625, 0.00559749503939
spoken, 8251, 0.00559749503939
saviour, 7649, 0.00559749503939
jacob, 4813, 0.00559749503939
bush, 1423, 0.00559749503939
everi, 3235, 0.00557206507386
faith, 3367, 0.00556260204176
trial, 9089, 0.00551996713285
tongu, 8983, 0.00551996713285
servant, 7811, 0.00551996713285
lip, 5292, 0.00551996713285
devis, 2594, 0.00551996713285
arrest, 654, 0.00551996713285
error, 3180, 0.00550421094736
told, 8973, 0.00549286071651
robert, 7437, 0.00549286071651
friend, 3692, 0.00545943010425
nobl, 6087, 0.00544918969945
world, 9841, 0.00544857222103
begin, 994, 0.00541623476094
appli, 584, 0.00540567070345
shake, 7842, 0.00538408077223
aton, 757, 0.00538408077223
hold, 4341, 0.00533417756021
sing, 7979, 0.00532379932117
bind, 1097, 0.00532379932117
prais, 6798, 0.00526767863287
face, 3345, 0.00524801416986
seed, 7765, 0.00521518123494
deceiv, 2436, 0.00507539353665
differ, 2633, 0.00500934993205
proclaim, 6892, 0.00499398291464
gentil, 3830, 0.00499398291464
sinc, 7977, 0.00495928891481
question, 7032, 0.00492445129472
josh, 4895, 0.0049199839826
glori, 3907, 0.0049199839826
usag, 9360, 0.00488536482842
sea, 7739, 0.00488536482842
known, 5054, 0.00487637888046
turn, 9158, 0.00485609906151
away, 833, 0.00483615080762
time, 8936, 0.004831800676
sacrific, 7569, 0.0048202559012
explicit, 3304, 0.0048202559012
cri, 2228, 0.0047895568864
chief, 1703, 0.00475997445014
strength, 8441, 0.00470385376184
adam, 258, 0.00470385376184
reward, 7368, 0.0046771816233
parent, 6426, 0.0046771816233
laugh, 5146, 0.0046771816233
forev, 3602, 0.00465135636392
sight, 7943, 0.00462632585529
righteous, 7400, 0.00462632585529
hung, 4441, 0.00462632585529
alleg, 422, 0.00455554842189
matt, 5552, 0.00451156866562
sourc, 8153, 0.00450341149693
answer, 535, 0.00450341149693
spread, 8265, 0.00449043949467
shoot, 7900, 0.00449043949467
feed, 3427, 0.00444975965103
identifi, 4486, 0.00441101769357
role, 7463, 0.00437403735531
like, 5272, 0.00428191029607
rais, 7076, 0.0042722262322
eat, 2968, 0.00425643103017
asid, 687, 0.00425643103017
ask, 689, 0.00422613404395
write, 9865, 0.00420629391546
born, 1233, 0.00416760533999
meant, 5598, 0.00411335675228
hurt, 4451, 0.00411335675228
voic, 9567, 0.00410034163709
look, 5341, 0.00405998019849
someon, 8124, 0.00398712027096
gone, 3943, 0.00395851782423
mere, 5641, 0.0039477437946
articl, 665, 0.00393245395493
sure, 8585, 0.00392931330708
presid, 6839, 0.00389591560884
inde, 4594, 0.00387607493388
separ, 7797, 0.00386633317259
fail, 3360, 0.00386633317259
paul, 6469, 0.00383778893347
eye, 3337, 0.00381930115253
appar, 577, 0.00377484050512
forget, 3604, 0.00370840136117
taken, 8678, 0.00368482210601
went, 9704, 0.00363232470808
lost, 5355, 0.00359679821712
took, 8987, 0.00358987538942
perfect, 6538, 0.00355611837347
written, 9867, 0.00354953188125
tri, 9087, 0.00353364693367
stand, 8311, 0.00352370662186
concern, 2004, 0.00351737641602
law, 5153, 0.00349253700979
add, 260, 0.00349253700979
head, 4215, 0.00343356718602
futur, 3737, 0.00343356718602
continu, 2092, 0.00343356718602
accept, 208, 0.00334219555528
godhead, 3929, 0.00328841972075
ezek, 3339, 0.00328841972075
decre, 2455, 0.00328841972075
bom, 1208, 0.00328841972075
abroad, 190, 0.00328841972075
mention, 5632, 0.0032554762815
light, 5267, 0.00323739937434
left, 5193, 0.00323739937434
open, 6258, 0.00322850936951
yhwh, 9953, 0.0031714154885
wherefor, 9725, 0.0031714154885
weari, 9677, 0.0031714154885
twain, 9166, 0.0031714154885
transgress, 9054, 0.0031714154885
thiev, 8867, 0.0031714154885
signifi, 7950, 0.0031714154885
scribe, 7722, 0.0031714154885
mourn, 5888, 0.0031714154885
elder, 3027, 0.0031714154885
byu, 1439, 0.0031714154885
asham, 681, 0.0031714154885
small, 8054, 0.00316885970671
mind, 5733, 0.00316885970671
design, 2564, 0.0031606844887
agre, 337, 0.00314857368416
complet, 1975, 0.00314457649014
good, 3948, 0.00313645972566
today, 8964, 0.00310945906499
import, 4551, 0.00308315658215
whosoev, 9743, 0.00308065995521
prison, 6877, 0.00308065995521
forbid, 3593, 0.00308065995521
flee, 3534, 0.00308065995521
ensign, 3122, 0.00308065995521
congreg, 2039, 0.00308065995521
old, 6216, 0.00307579519847
alway, 457, 0.00307213933908
power, 6783, 0.00301918611187
rejoic, 7245, 0.00300650728524
mock, 5803, 0.00300650728524
crown, 2247, 0.00300650728524
consecr, 2053, 0.00300650728524
confess, 2027, 0.00300650728524
altar, 448, 0.00300650728524
yah, 9926, 0.0029438120961
triumph, 9108, 0.0029438120961
throne, 8897, 0.0029438120961
singular, 7984, 0.0029438120961
provok, 6952, 0.0029438120961
inward, 4751, 0.0029438120961
cor, 2136, 0.0029438120961
conspir, 2065, 0.0029438120961
given, 3887, 0.00291958949348
book, 1218, 0.00291356407818
ruler, 7539, 0.00288950305299
lest, 5224, 0.00288950305299
joel, 4877, 0.00288950305299
glorious, 3909, 0.00288950305299
egypt, 3014, 0.00288950305299
doth, 2827, 0.00288950305299
dev, 2587, 0.00288950305299
crucifi, 2252, 0.00288950305299
certain, 1619, 0.00287831983572
yea, 9941, 0.00284159908198
solomon, 8117, 0.00284159908198
provis, 6950, 0.00284159908198
moreov, 5859, 0.00284159908198
conspiraci, 2066, 0.00284159908198
bernard, 1044, 0.00284159908198
anger, 510, 0.00284159908198
templ, 8774, 0.0027987475197
seventi, 7822, 0.0027987475197
inherit, 4645, 0.0027987475197
think, 8871, 0.00279448819603
wherebi, 9724, 0.00275998356642
wheel, 9721, 0.00275998356642
referenc, 7214, 0.00275998356642
pet, 6573, 0.00275998356642
high, 4292, 0.00275087897149
slander, 8016, 0.00272459484972
liberti, 5249, 0.00272459484972
distress, 2752, 0.00272459484972
far, 3386, 0.0027171818964
teeth, 8748, 0.00269204038611
perpetu, 6556, 0.00269204038611
knee, 5042, 0.00269204038611
kermit, 4990, 0.00269204038611
pride, 6859, 0.00266189966059
flood, 3548, 0.00266189966059
number, 6156, 0.00264503026419
sleep, 8025, 0.00263383931643
demon, 2519, 0.00263383931643
stress, 8442, 0.00260759061747
nonsens, 6103, 0.00260759061747
mouth, 5890, 0.00260759061747
daughter, 2393, 0.00260759061747
exclus, 3267, 0.00258293375488
enterpris, 3126, 0.00258293375488
spoke, 8250, 0.00253769676833
sheep, 7867, 0.00253769676833
leadership, 5174, 0.00251683508418
lds, 5171, 0.00251683508418
expos, 3311, 0.00251683508418
dri, 2869, 0.00251683508418
creatur, 2222, 0.00251683508418
shame, 7851, 0.00249699145732
restor, 7327, 0.00249699145732
possess, 6764, 0.00249699145732
creativ, 2220, 0.00249699145732
preserv, 6838, 0.00247807113091
jon, 4887, 0.00247807113091
cast, 1545, 0.00247807113091
utter, 9387, 0.0024599919913
tear, 8735, 0.0024599919913
plant, 6670, 0.0024599919913
merci, 5638, 0.0024599919913
assur, 712, 0.0024599919913
mankind, 5484, 0.00244268241421
foundat, 3627, 0.00244268241421
vol, 9570, 0.00242607955089
understood, 9248, 0.00242607955089
theolog, 8844, 0.00242607955089
whenev, 9722, 0.0024101279506
superior, 8562, 0.0024101279506
till, 8933, 0.0023947784432
liter, 5304, 0.0023947784432
pleas, 6688, 0.00239288561908
forgiv, 3605, 0.00237998722507
declar, 2447, 0.00237998722507
capit, 1502, 0.00237998722507
new, 6023, 0.00236948724613
testament, 8813, 0.00236571510551
contend, 2083, 0.00236571510551
breath, 1291, 0.00236571510551
inspir, 4676, 0.00235192688092
chosen, 1727, 0.00235192688092
vast, 9434, 0.00233859081165
shut, 7925, 0.00233859081165
door, 2818, 0.00233859081165
rick, 7387, 0.00232567818196
descend, 2554, 0.00232567818196
beast, 972, 0.00232567818196
aid, 351, 0.00232567818196
richard, 7383, 0.00231316292765
rare, 7101, 0.00231316292765
primarili, 6864, 0.00231316292765
master, 5537, 0.00230102131936
point, 6710, 0.00229602333168
weiss, 9698, 0.00228923169178
twice, 9170, 0.00228923169178
incid, 4575, 0.00228923169178
bound, 1250, 0.00228923169178
becam, 980, 0.00228923169178
wave, 9661, 0.00227777421095
prophet, 6928, 0.00226663067353
round, 7494, 0.00225578433281
rise, 7414, 0.00225578433281
plain, 6659, 0.00225578433281
deni, 2523, 0.00223492264867
apart, 559, 0.00223492264867
touch, 9015, 0.00222487982551
pre, 6802, 0.00222487982551
divin, 2766, 0.00221507902181
proceed, 6889, 0.00220550884679
ancient, 500, 0.00220550884679
rock, 7445, 0.0021961586954
cloud, 1835, 0.0021961586954
march, 5504, 0.00217807955578
despit, 2570, 0.00217807955578
shown, 7918, 0.00216933268807
tim, 8935, 0.0021607699787
chapter, 1658, 0.00215238383267
awar, 831, 0.00215238383267
stephen, 8380, 0.00214416711538
plot, 6694, 0.00214416711538
establish, 3198, 0.00214416711538
wind, 9773, 0.00212821551509
water, 9657, 0.00212821551509
summari, 8536, 0.00212821551509
sampl, 7601, 0.00212821551509
histor, 4313, 0.00212821551509
challeng, 1642, 0.00212821551509
way, 9666, 0.00212782653944
contract, 2095, 0.00212046835375
safe, 7577, 0.00211286600768
clean, 1799, 0.00210540316211
strang, 8426, 0.00209807478956
attent, 766, 0.00209807478956
tradit, 9037, 0.00209087612955
held, 4243, 0.00208380267
accur, 225, 0.00208380267
logic, 5330, 0.0020632917523
proper, 6924, 0.00205667837614
render, 7277, 0.00205017081854
repeat, 7286, 0.00203125049213
choos, 1720, 0.00203125049213
assist, 705, 0.00203125049213
angel, 509, 0.00203125049213
unlik, 9290, 0.00201910888385
race, 7049, 0.00200731925627
peter, 6575, 0.00200731925627
section, 7759, 0.00200155017127
necessari, 5990, 0.00200155017127
eventu, 3233, 0.00200155017127
brought, 1343, 0.00200155017127
religi, 7260, 0.00199586177543
desir, 2565, 0.00199586177543
search, 7746, 0.00199025184273
thread, 8890, 0.00196855530299
confus, 2037, 0.00195812617586
occur, 6192, 0.00194795780442
maintain, 5454, 0.00194795780442
request, 7301, 0.00192835335056
jew, 4862, 0.00192359641127
gave, 3798, 0.00191424625988
depart, 2535, 0.00190965057626
remain, 7264, 0.00190510624214
realiti, 7148, 0.00190510624214
burn, 1413, 0.00190510624214
publish, 6974, 0.00187885754318
fall, 3369, 0.00186225467986
michael, 5680, 0.00185420068059
contribut, 2103, 0.00185420068059
memori, 5628, 0.001842411053
contact, 2078, 0.001842411053
surpris, 8593, 0.00183095357217
ground, 4061, 0.00182720503252
pass, 6448, 0.00181616235404
death, 2423, 0.00181616235404
special, 8198, 0.00181254709759
leav, 5184, 0.00181254709759
dead, 2415, 0.00181254709759
draw, 2861, 0.00180541158698
strong, 8456, 0.00180189023448
saw, 7650, 0.00179150549145
materi, 5543, 0.00179150549145
sometim, 8128, 0.00178810200989
contain, 2079, 0.00178810200989
offer, 6203, 0.00178472677332
defin, 2482, 0.00178472677332
command, 1933, 0.00178472677332
built, 1381, 0.00178137931679
generat, 3819, 0.00176185331093
anim, 515, 0.00175554754628
instead, 4682, 0.0017462685049
return, 7346, 0.00173719644834
rest, 7324, 0.00173719644834
goe, 3931, 0.00173719644834
quick, 7036, 0.00173421684766
job, 4873, 0.00173125891701
learn, 5182, 0.00172832234344
natur, 5966, 0.0017225120493
bring, 1316, 0.00171963773576
evid, 3245, 0.00171394933992
sun, 8539, 0.00168139487631
messag, 5650, 0.00168139487631
author, 796, 0.00166856372787
simpli, 7967, 0.00166604536891
issu, 4793, 0.00165858252333
appear, 580, 0.00165368229932
build, 1378, 0.00164168397576
becom, 983, 0.00163002949145
exact, 3253, 0.00161425468475
mission, 5772, 0.00160767696177
feel, 3429, 0.00159906894368
assum, 710, 0.00157831374302
human, 4432, 0.00157029942119
respons, 7323, 0.00156635071374
send, 7785, 0.00156243997522
public, 6973, 0.00156243997522
direct, 2667, 0.00155856648239
field, 3466, 0.00153063466208
develop, 2588, 0.00151475228375
seen, 7767, 0.00150959305593
sever, 7823, 0.00150113716564
wonder, 9821, 0.00147677577249
note, 6118, 0.0014674256211
hope, 4372, 0.00145379148391
origin, 6293, 0.00144640990792
group, 4064, 0.00141543404109
place, 6657, 0.00139301626846
play, 6681, 0.00134128137111
tell, 8767, 0.00132904009032
problem, 6887, 0.00127955570251
realli, 7150, 0.00120686166054
someth, 8126, 0.00119723485199
help, 4249, 0.00119486333698
space, 8164, 0.00115367038213
work, 9833, 0.0011522483049
need, 5993, 0.00109352705023
anyon, 554, 0.00109291314269
year, 9943, 0.00102214848958
