Filename: /home/dev/scikit_learn_data/20news_home/20news-bydate-test/comp.graphics/38778
Truth category: 0 (comp.graphics)
Assigned cluster: 1 (graphic imag file thank program format gif use bit help)

Raw data:
============ START RAW ==========================
From: grieggs@jpl-devvax.jpl.nasa.gov (John T. Grieggs)
Subject: (26Apr93) comp.graphics Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
Originator: grieggs@cerberus
Nntp-Posting-Host: cerberus
Reply-To: grieggs <grieggs@jpl-devvax.jpl.nasa.gov>
Organization: Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, CA
Expires: Mon, 10 May 1993 16:05:30 GMT
Lines: 956

Archive-name: graphics/faq

This message is automatically posted once a week or so in an effort to
cut down on the repetitive junk in comp.graphics.  It was last changed
on 26Apr93.  If you have answers to other frequently asked questions that
you would like included in this posting, please send me mail.  If you
don't want to see this posting every week, please add the subject line
to your kill file.  Thank you.

If your copy of the FAQ is more than a couple of weeks old, you may want to
seek out the most recent version.  The latest version of this FAQ is always
available on the archive site pit-manager.mit.edu (alias rtfm.mit.edu) as
pub/usenet/news.answers/graphics/faq.

---
_john

	John Grieggs grieggs@jpl-devvax.jpl.nasa.gov JohnG@portal.com
---
Last update: 26Apr93

Sorry I haven't posted this for a couple of weeks, but I was called out of
town due to a death in the family.  This is reality, folks.

What's new?

SIGGRAPH Online Bibliography Project (spencer@cgrg.ohio-state.edu).

		grieggs@jpl-devvax.jpl.nasa.gov



Contents:

    1) General references for graphics questions.
    2) Drawing three-dimensional objects on a two-dimensional screen.
    3) Quantizing 24 bit images down to 8 bits.
    4) Converting color into grayscale.
    5) Quantizing grayscale to black&white.
    6) Rotating a raster image by an arbitrary angle.
    7) Free image manipulation software.
    8) Format documents for TIFF, IFF, BIFF, NFF, OFF, FITS, etc.
    9) Converting between vector formats.
    10) How to get Pixar films.
    11) How do I draw a circle as a Bezier (or B-spline) curve?
    12) How to order standards documents.
    13) How to FTP by email.
    14) How to tell whether a point is within a planar polygon.
    15) How to tessellate a sphere.
    16) Specific references on ray-tracing and global illumination.
    17) SIGGRAPH information online
    18) SIGGRAPH Panels Proceedings available
    19) Graphics mailing lists
    20) Specific references on file formats
    21) What about GIF?
    22) What is morphing?
    23) How to ray-trace height fields
    24) How to find the area of a 3D polygon
    25) How to join ACM/SIGGRAPH
    26) Where can I find MRI and CT scan volume data?
    27) Specific references on spatial data structures including quadtrees
	and octrees
    28) Where can I get a program to plot XY(Z) data or f(x) data?
    29) Specific references on PEX and PHIGS
    30) SIGGRAPH Online Bibliography Project


1) General references for graphics questions:

    Computer Graphics: Principles and Practice (2nd Ed.), J.D. Foley,
	A. van Dam, S.K. Feiner, J.F. Hughes, Addison-Wesley 1990, ISBN
	0-201-12110-7
    Procedural Elements for Computer Graphics, David F. Rogers, McGraw
	Hill 1985, ISBN 0-07-053534-5
    Mathematical Elements for Computer Graphics 2nd Ed., David F. Rogers
	and J. Alan Adams, McGraw Hill 1990, ISBN 0-07-053530-2
    Three Dimensional Computer Graphics, Alan Watt, Addison-Wesley 1990, ISBN
	0-201-15442-0
    An Introduction to Ray Tracing, Andrew Glassner (ed.), Academic Press
	1989, ISBN 0-12-286160-4
    Graphics Gems, Andrew Glassner (ed.), Academic Press 1990, ISBN
	0-12-286165-5
    Graphics Gems II, James Arvo (ed.), Academic Press 1991, ISBN
	0-12-64480-0
    Graphics Gems III, David Kirk (ed.), Academic Press 1992, ISBN
	0-12-409670-0 (with IBM disk) or 0-12-409671-9 (with Mac disk)
    Digital Image Warping, George Wolberg, IEEE Computer Society Press
	Monograph 1990, ISBN 0-8186-8944-7
    Digital Image Processing (2nd Ed.), Rafael C. Gonzalez, Paul Wintz,
	Addison-Wesley 1987, ISBN 0-201-11026-1
    A Programmer's Geometry, Adrian Bowyer, John Woodwark, Butterworths 1983,
	ISBN 0-408-01242-0 Pbk

An automatic mail handler at Brown University allows users of "Computer
Graphics: Principles and Practice," by Foley, van Dam, Feiner, and
Hughes, to obtain text errata and information on distribution of the
software packages described in the book.  Also, users can send the
authors feedback, to report text errors and software bugs, make
suggestions, and submit exercises.  To receive information describing
how you can use the mail handler, simply mail graphtext@cs.brown.edu
and put the word "Help" in the Subject line.  Use the Subject line
"Software-Distribution" to receive information specifically concerning
the software packages SRGP and SPHIGS.

Errata for "An Introduction to Ray Tracing" is available on
wuarchive.wustl.edu in graphics/graphics/books/IntroToRT.errata.

Errata for "Digital Image Warping" is in the same directory as
"Digital-Image-Warping.errata".

All C code from the "Graphics Gems" series is available via anonymous ftp
from princeton.edu.  Look in the directory pub/Graphics/GraphicsGems for
the various volumes (Gems, GemsII, GemsIII), and get the README file first.

Errata to _Graphics Gems_ and _Graphics Gems II is available on
wuarchive.wustl.edu in graphics/graphics/books.

A list of computer graphics, computational geometry and image processing
journals is available from Juhana Kouhia, jk87377@cs.tut.fi.


2) Drawing three-dimensional objects on a two-dimensional screen.

The simple answer is, you divide by the depth.  For a more verbose
explanation, see any of the above references, starting with:

The Foley & Van Dam & Feiner & Hughes "Computer Graphics" book is certainly
a good start.  Chapter 6 is "Viewing in 3D", then read chapter 15,
"Visible-Surface Determination".  For more information go to chapter 16 for
shading, chapter 19 for clipping, and branch out from there.


3) Quantizing 24 bit images down to 8 bits.

Find a copy of "Color Image Quantization for Frame Buffer Display" by
Paul Heckbert, SIGGRAPH '82 Proceedings, page 297.  There are other
algorithms, but this one works well and is fairly simple.  Implementations
are included in most raster toolkits (see item 7 below).

A variant method is described in "Graphics Gems", p. 287-293.  Note that
the code from the "Graphics Gems" series is all available from an FTP site,
as described above.

Check out John Bradley's "Diversity Algorithm", which is incorporated into
the xv package and described in the back of the manual.

The ImageMagick package (see section 7 for where it is) contains another
quantizing algorithm which is presented as "doing a better job than the
other algorithms, but slower".

There's also an implementation of:

Wan, Wong, and Prusinkiewicz, _An Algorithm for Multidimensional Data
Clustering_, Transactions on Mathematical Software, Vol. 14 #2 (June, 1988),
pp. 153-162.

avialable as princeton.edu:pub/Graphics/colorquant.shar.  This code,
in modified form, appears in the Utah Raster Toolkit as well.


4) Converting color into grayscale.

The NTSC formula is:

    luminosity = .299 red + .587 green + .114 blue


5) Quantizing grayscale to black&white.

The only reference you need for this stuff is:

    Digital Halftoning, Robert Ulichney, MIT Press 1987, ISBN 0-262-21009-6

But before you go off and start coding, check out the image manipulation
software mentioned in item 7 below.  All of the packages mentioned can do
some form of gray to b&w conversion.


6) Rotating a raster image by an arbitrary angle.

The obvious but wrong method is to loop over the pixels in the source
image, transform each coordinate, and copy the pixel to the destination.
This is wrong because it leaves holes in the destination.  Instead,
loop over the pixels in the destination image, apply the *reverse*
transformation to the coordinates, and copy that pixel from the source.
This method is quite general, and can be used for any one-to-one
2-D mapping, not just rotation.  You can add anti-aliasing by doing
sub-pixel sampling.

However, there is a much faster method, with antialising included,
which involves doing three shear operations.  The method was originally
created for the IM Raster Toolkit (see below); an implementation is
also present in PBMPLUS.  Reference: "A Fast Algorithm for Raster
Rotation", by Alan Paeth (awpaeth@watcgl.waterloo.edu) Graphics
Interface '86 (Vancouver).  An article on the IM toolkit appears in
the same journal.  An updated version of the rotation paper appears
in "Graphics Gems" (see section [1]) under the original title.


7) Free image manipulation software.

There are a number of toolkits for converting from one image format to
another, doing simple image manipulations such as size scaling, plus
the above-mentioned 24 -> 8, color -> gray, gray -> b&w conversions.
Here are pointers to some of them:

    xv by John Bradley.  X-based image display, manipulation, and format
    conversion package.  XV displays many image formats and permits editing
    of GIF files, among others. The program was updated 5/92; see the file
    contrib/xv-2.21.tar.Z on export.lcs.mit.edu.

    PBMPLUS, by Jef Poskanzer.  Comprehensive format conversion and image
    manipulation package.  The latest version is always available via
    anonymous FTP as ftp.ee.lbl.gov:pbmplus*.tar.Z,
    wuarchive.wustl.edu:graphics/graphics/packages/pbmplus/pbmplus*.tar.Z,
    and export.lcs.mit.edu:contrib/pbmplus*.tar.Z.

    IM Raster Toolkit, by Alan Paeth (awpaeth@watcgl.uwaterloo.ca).
    Provides a portable and efficient format and related toolkit.  The
    format is versatile in supporting pixels of arbitrary channels,
    components, and bit precisions while allowing compression and machine
    byte-order independence.  The kit contains more than 50 tools with
    extensive support of image manipulation, digital halftoning and format
    conversion.  Previously distributed on tape c/o the University of
    Waterloo, an FTP version will appear someday.

    Utah RLE Toolkit.  Conversion and manipulation package, similar to
    PBMPLUS.  Available via FTP as cs.utah.edu:pub/urt-*,
    princeton.edu:pub/Graphics/urt-*, and freebie.engin.umich.edu:pub/urt-*.

    Fuzzy Pixmap Manipulation, by Michael Mauldin <mlm@nl.cs.cmu.edu>.
    Conversion and manipulation package, similar to PBMPLUS.  Version 1.0
    available via FTP as nl.cs.cmu.edu:/usr/mlm/ftp/fbm.tar.Z,
    ftp.uu.net:pub/fbm.tar.Z, and ucsd.edu:graphics/fbm.tar.Z.

    Img Software Set, by Paul Raveling <raveling@venera.isi.edu>.  Reads and
    writes its own image format, displays on an X11 screen, and does some
    image manipulations.  Version 1.3 is available via FTP as
    export.lcs.mit.edu:contrib/img_1.3.tar.Z, and
    venera.isi.edu:pub/img_1.3.tar.Z along with a large collection of color
    images.

    Xim, X Image Manipulator, by Philip R. Thompson.  It does essential
    interactive image manipulations and uses x11r4 and the OSF/Motif toolkit
    for the interface.  It supports images in 1, 8, 24 and 32 bit formats.
    Reads/writes and converts to/from GIF, xwd, xbm, tiff, rle, xim, and
    other formats.  Writes level 2 postscript.  Other utilities and image
    application library are included.  Not a paint package.  Available via
    ftp from gis.mit.edu.

    xloadimage, by Jim Frost <madd@std.com>.  Reads in images in various
    formats and displays them on an X11 screen.  Available via FTP as
    export.lcs.mit.edu:contrib/xloadimage*, and in your nearest comp.sources.x
    archive.

    xli, by Grame Gill, is an updated xloadimage with numerous improvements
    in both speed and in the number of formats supported.  Available in the
    same places as xloadimage (contrib tape, comp.sources.x archives).

    TIFF Software, by Sam Leffler <sam@okeeffe.berkeley.edu>.  Nice
    portable library for reading and writing TIFF files, plus a few tools
    for manipulating them and reading other formats.  Available via FTP as
    ucbvax.berkeley.edu:pub/tiff/*.tar.Z or ftp.uu.net:graphics/tiff.tar.Z

    xtiff, an X11 tool for viewing a TIFF file.  It was written to handle
    as many different kinds of TIFF files as possible while remaining
    simple, portable and efficient.  xtiff illustrates some common problems
    with building pixmaps and using different visual classes.  It is
    distributed as part of Sam Leffler's libtiff package and it is also
    available on export.lcs.mit.edu, ftp.uu.net and comp.sources.x.
    xtiff 2.0 was announced in 4/91; it includes Xlib and Xt versions.

    ALV, a Sun-specific image toolkit.  Version 2.0.6 posted to
    comp.sources.sun on 11dec89.  Also available via email to
    alv-users-request@cs.bris.ac.uk.

    popi, an image manipulation language.  Version 2.1 posted to
    comp.sources.misc on 12dec89.

    ImageMagick, an X11 package for display and interactive manipulation
    of images.  Includes tools for image conversion, annotation, compositing,
    animation, and creating montages.  ImageMagick can read and write many of
    the more popular image formats.  Available via FTP as
    export.lcs.mit.edu:contrib/ImageMagick.tar.Z.

    Khoros, a huge (~100 meg) graphical development environment based on
    X11R4.  Khoros components include a visual programming language, code
    generators for extending the visual language and adding new application
    packages to the system, an interactive user interface editor, an
    interactive image display package, an extensive library of image and
    signal processing routines, and 2D/3D plotting packages.  Available via
    FTP as pprg.eece.unm.edu:pub/khoros/*.

    LaboImage, a SunView-based image processing and analysis package.  It
    includes more than 200 image manipulation, processing and measurement
    routines, on-line help, plus tools such as an image editor, a color
    table editor and several biomedical utilities.  Available via anonymous
    FTP as ads.com:pub/VISION-LIST-ARCHIVE/SHAREWARE/LaboImage_3.1.tar.Z

    The San Diego Supercomputer Center Image Tools, software tools for
    reading, writing, and manipulating raster images.  Binaries for some
    machines available via anonymous FTP in sdsc.edu:sdscpub.

    The Independent JPEG Group has written a package for reading and
    writing JPEG files.  FTP to ftp.uu.net:graphics/jpeg/jpegsrc.v?.tar.Z

Don't forget to set binary mode when you FTP tar files.  For you MILNET
folks who still don't have name servers, the IP addresses are:

    ads.com			128.229.30.16
    cs.utah.edu			128.110.4.21
    coral.cs.jcu.edu.au		137.219.17.4
    export.lcs.mit.edu		18.24.0.12
    freebie.engin.umich.edu	141.212.103.21
    ftp.ee.lbl.gov		128.3.112.20
    ftp.uu.net			137.39.1.9 or 192.48.96.9
    gis.mit.edu			18.80.1.118
    gondwana.ecr.mu.oz.au	128.250.70.62
    karazm.math.uh.edu		129.7.7.6
    marsh.cs.curtin.edu.au	134.7.1.1
    nic.funet.fir		128.214.6.100
    ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu		141.142.20.50
    nl.cs.cmu.edu		128.2.222.56
    pit-manager.mit.edu		18.172.1.27
    pprg.eece.unm.edu		129.24.24.10
    princeton.edu		128.112.128.1
    sdsc.edu			132.249.20.22
    ucbvax.berkeley.edu		128.32.133.1
    venera.isi.edu		128.9.0.32
    weedeater.math.yale.edu	128.36.23.17
    wuarchive.wustl.edu		128.252.135.4
    zamenhof.cs.rice.edu	128.42.1.75

Please do *not* post or mail messages saying "I can't FTP, could someone
mail this to me?"  There are a number of automated mail servers that will
send you things like this in response to a message.  See item 13 below for
details on some.

Also, the newsgroup alt.graphics.pixutils is specifically for discussion
of software like this.  You may find useful information there.


8) Format documents for TIFF, IFF, BIFF, NFF, OFF, FITS, etc.

You almost certainly don't need these.  Read the above item 7 on free
image manipulation software.  Get one or more of these packages and
look through them.  Chances are excellent that the image converter you
were going to write is already there.  But if you still want one of the
format documents, many such files are available by anonymous ftp from
zamenhof.cs.rice.edu in directory pub/graphics.formats.

These files were collected off the net and are believed to be correct.
This archive includes pixel formats, and two- and three-dimensional object
formats.  The future of this archive is uncertain at the moment, as Mark
Hall <foo@cs.rice.edu> will apparently no longer be maintaining it.

A second graphics file format archive is now being actively maintained
by Quincey Koziol (koziol@ncsa.uiuc.edu).  The latest version exists at
ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu in /misc/file.formats/graphics.formats.  Apparently,
neither of these is complete, you might want to check both.

FITS stands for Flexible Image Transport System. It's a file format most
often used in astronomy.  Despite the name, it can contain not only images
but other things as well.  There is a regular monthly FITS basics and
information posting on sci.astro.fits - read it if you want to know more.



9) Converting between vector formats.

A lot of people ask about converting from HPGL to PostScript, or MacDraw
to CGM, or whatever.  It is important to understand that this is a very
different problem from the image format conversions in item 7.  Converting
one image format to another is a fairly easy problem, since once you
get past all the file header junk, a pixel is a pixel -- the basic objects
are the same for all image formats.  This is not so for vector formats.
The basic objects -- circles, ellipses, drop-shadowed pattern-filled
round-cornered rectangles, etc. -- vary from one format to another.
Except in extremely restricted cases, it is simply not possible to do
a one-to-one conversion between vector formats.

There is software for converting to and from CGM files on ftp.psc.edu.  The
contributor states that it runs on Unix, MS-Windows, and possibly the Mac.
A better, more specific blurb would be most welcome.

On the other hand, it is quite possible to do a close approximation,
rendering an image from one format using the primitives from another.
As far as I know, no one has put together a general toolkit of such
converters, but two different HPGL to PostScript converters have been
posted to comp.sources.misc.  Check the index on your nearest archive
site.

A related frequent question is how to convert from some vector format
to a bitmapped image - from PostScript to Sun raster format, or HPGL to
X11 bitmap.  For example, some of the commercial PostScript clones for
PC's allow you to render to a disk file as well as a printer.  Also,
the PostScript interpreters in the NeXT box and in Sun's X11/NeWs can
be used to render to a file if you're clever.  But in general, the
answer is no.  However, if someone were to put together a vector to
vector conversion toolkit, adding a vector to raster converter would be
trivial.

GNU ghostscript (from the FSF - current version 2.5.2) includes
drivers for both ppm and gif format files, thus it can be used as
a PostScript to ppm  or a PostScript to GIF filter.  (It implements
essentially all of PostScript level 1 and alot of Display PostScript
and level 2).


10) How to get Pixar films.

The various John Lasseter / Pixar computer animated shorts are available
on video tape.  You can order them from Direct Cinema Limited:

    Film                           Individual Price      Institutional Price
    Luxo, Jr.				$14.95			$50.00
    Red's Dream				$19.95			$75.00
    Tin Toy				$24.95			$75.00
    Knickknack				$24.95			$75.00
    Luxo, Jr./Red's Dream/Tin Toy	$39.95			$100.00

All tapes are on 1/2" VHS NTSC.  Add $10/tape for PAL format.  Also
available:

    Tin Toy T-shirt			$15.00
    Knickknack 3D T-shirt		$15.00 (includes glasses)

For individual orders, add $5 S&H for the first tape or shirt, $2 for
each additional tape or shirt.  For institutional orders, add $5 S&H
for the first tape, $3 for each additional tape.  Foreign shipping, add
$3/tape or shirt.  Call 800-525-0000 (213-396-4774 international,
213-396-3233 FAX) to charge to your credit card.  Call first to verify
prices and availability.  Or, just write to:

    Direct Cinema Limited
    1749 14th Street
    Santa Monica, CA 90404-4342

Allan Braunsdorf has this to say:

At SIGGRAPH they were selling a tape with all four shorts
for $25.  That was a sale price.  You can get it for slightly
more than that normally.  ($35 maybe.)  I believe it's
available from RenderMan Retail (at Pixar's address).

    Pixar
    1001 West Cutting Blvd.
    Richmond, CA. 94804
    (510) 236-4000 
    (510) 236-0388 (FAX)

You can obtain a video directly from Pixar which contains "Luxo, Jr.", "Red's
Dream", "Tin Toy" and "Knicknack" for $25.00, plus $2.50 for shipping. They
will take your order over the phone or via FAX with a major credit card. I 
ordered mine just last week and received it several days later. Don't expect 
to be able to rent a copy from your local video store. According to the license
agreement printed on the back cover of the case, it cannot be rented.


11) How do I draw a circle as a Bezier (or B-spline) curve?

The short answer is, "You can't."  Unless you use a rational spline you
can only approximate a circle.  The approximation may look acceptable,
but it is sensitive to scale.  Magnify the scale and the error of
approximation magnifies.  Deviations from circularity that were not
visible in the small can become glaring in the large.  If you want to
do the job right, consult the article:

  "A Menagerie of Rational B-Spline Circles"
  by Leslie Piegl and Wayne Tiller
  in IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications, volume 9, number 9,
  September, 1989, pages 48-56.

For rough, non-rational approximations, consult the book:

  Computational Geometry for Design and Manufacture
  by I. D. Faux and M. J. Pratt,
  Ellis Horwood Publishers, Halsted Press, John Wiley 1980.

For the best known non-rational approximations, consult the article:

  "Good Approximation of Circles by Curvature-continuous Bezier Curves"
  by Tor Dokken, Morten Daehlen, Tom Lyche, and Knut Morken
  in Computer Aided Geometric Design, volume 7, numbers 1-4 (combined),
  June, 1990, pages 33-41 [Elsevier Science Publishers (North-Holland)]


12) How to order standards documents.

The American National Standards Institute sells ANSI standards, and also
ISO (international) standards.  Their sales office is at 1-212-642-4900,
mailing address is 1430 Broadway, NY NY 10018.  It helps if you have the
complete name and number.

Some useful numbers to know:

CGM (Computer Graphics Metafile) is ISO 8632-4 (1987).  GKS (Graphical
Kernel System) is ANSI X3.124-1985.  PHIGS (Programmer's Hierarchical
Interactive Graphics System) is ANSI X3.144-1988.  IGES is ASME/ANSI
Y14.26M-1987.  Language bindings are often separate but related numbers;
for example, the GKS FORTRAN binding is X3.124.1-1985.

Standards-in-progress are made available at key milestones to solicit
comments from the graphical public (this includes you!).  ANSI can let
you know where to order them; most are available from Global Engineering
at 1-800-854-7179.


13) How to FTP by email.

There are a number of sites that archive the Usenet sources newsgroups
and make them available via an email query system.  You send a message
to an automated server saying something like "send comp.sources.unix/fbm",
and a few hours or days later you get the file in the mail.

In addition, there is at least one FTP-by-mail server.  Send mail to
ftpmail@decwrl.dec.com saying "help" and it will tell you how to use
it.  Note that this service has at times been turned off due to abuse.


14) How to tell whether a point is within a planar polygon.

Consider a ray originating at the point of interest and continuing to
infinity.  If it crosses an odd number of polygon edges along the way,
the point is within the polygon.  If the ray crosses an even number of
edges, the point is either outside the polygon, or within an interior
hole formed from intersecting polygon edges.  This idea is known in
the trade as the Jordan curve theorem; see Eric Haines' article in
Glassner's ray tracing book (above) for more information, including
treatment of special cases.

Another method is to sum the absolute angles from the point to all
the vertices on the polygon.  If the sum is 2 pi, the point is inside,
if the sum is 0 the point is outside.  However, this method is about an
order of magnitude slower than the previous method because evaluating the
trigonometric functions is usually quite costly.

Code for both methods (plus barycentric triangle testing) can be found in
the Ray Tracing News, Vol. 5, No. 3, available from princeton.edu:
pub/Graphics/RTNews/RTNv5n3.Z.


15) How to tessellate a sphere.

One simple way is to do recursive subdivision into triangles.  The
base of the recursion is an octahedron, and then each level divides
each triangle into four smaller ones.  Jon Leech <leech@cs.unc.edu>
has posted a nice routine called sphere.c that generates the coordinates.
It's available for FTP on ftp.ee.lbl.gov and princeton.edu.

16) Specific references on ray-tracing and global illumination.

Rick Speer maintains a cross-indexed ray-tracing bibliography:

Highlights of this edition-

    i) more than 500 citations spanning the period from 1968 through
       November '91;
    ii) papers from all Siggraph, Graphics Interface, Eurographics, CG
        International and Ausgraph proceedings through December, '91;
    iii) all citations keyworded for easy lookup;
    iv) cross-indices by keyword and author;
    v)  glossary of the 119 keywords used.

The bib is in the form of a PostScript file.  The printout is 41 pages long.
Below is a list of ftp sites and the dirs that contain the file. It's named
"speer.raytrace.bib.ps.Z" and is compressed at most sites-

             Site                             Dir
	wuarchive.wustl.edu	graphics/graphics/bib/RT.BIB.Speer/
	karazm.math.uh.edu	pub/Graphics/
	gondwana.ecr.mu.oz.au	pub/papers/
	nic.funet.fi		pub/sci/papers/graphics
	coral.cs.jcu.edu.au     graphics/papers/

Eric Haines (erich@eye.com) maintains ray tracing and radiosity/global
illumination bibliographies.  These are in "refer" format, and so can be
searched electronically (a simple awk script to search for keywords is
included with each).  The bibliographies are available at most of the
sites listed above, and the most current versions are maintained at
princeton.edu: pub/Graphics/Papers as "RayBib.*" and "RadBib.*".

Tom Wilson (wilson@cs.ucf.edu) has collected over 300 abstracts from ray
tracing related research papers and books.  The information is essentially
in plaintext, and Latex and troff formatting programs are included.  This
collection is available at most of the sites above as "rtabs.*".

17) SIGGRAPH information online

[from Steve Cunningham and Ralph Orlick]

ACM-SIGGRAPH announces its online information site at  siggraph.org
(128.248.245.250).  This site now provides SIGGRAPH information via both
anonymous ftp and an electronic mail archive server.

The anonymous ftp service is very standard, and the ftp directory includes
both conference and publications subdirectories.

To retrieve information by electronic mail, send mail to
     archive-server@siggraph.org
and in the subject or the body of the message include the message  send
followed by the topic and subtopic you wish.  A good place to start is with
the command
     send index
which will give you an up-to-date list of available information.


18) SIGGRAPH Panels Proceedings available

[from Steve Cunningham and Bob Judd]

ACM SIGGRAPH announces the availability of the SIGGRAPH '91 Panels Proceedings
at the  siggraph.org  site (128.248.245.250).  The proceedings are available
in three formats:
     text   (ASCII)
     rtf    (rich text format, suitable for many word processors)
     word   (MS Word for the Macintosh)
They may be retrieved from siggraph.org in two ways:

(1) by anonymous ftp
    change to one of the directories
       publications/s91/panels_proceedings/[text|rtf|word]
    The text and rtf files may be downloaded in ASCII mode, while the word
    files are stored in MacBinary format and must be downloaded in binary 
    mode.

    Each directory contains a Table of Contents file (TOC) that describes the
    contents of each panel file.

(2) by electronic mail
    send mail to
       archive-server@siggraph.org
    You can retrieve either the  text  or  rtf  files.  We suggest that you
    first retrieve the index files by putting one of the messages
       send panel91-txt index
       send panel91-rtf index
    in the subject or body of the message.  You will get the necessary
    information to retrieve the actual transcript files.


19) Graphics mailing lists

There are a variety of graphics-related mailing list out there, each
covering either a single product or a single topic.  I have been an
active participant in one of these for some time now, and find the
focus and expertise which can be brought to bear on an isolated topic
to be nothing short of amazing.

Please send me the appropriate information if you have any others you
would like to see added.

Name:		Imagine mailing list
Description:	Discussion forum for users of the Imagine 3D Rendering and
		Animation package by Impulse, Inc.
Platforms:	Amiga, IBM
Subscription:	imagine-request@email.sp.paramax.com
Posting:	imagine@email.sp.paramax.com

Name:		DCTV mailing list
Description:	Discussion forum for users of the Digital Creations DCTV
		box, software, and file formats
Platforms:	Amiga
Subscription:	DCTV-request@nova.cc.purdue.edu
Posting:	DCTV@nova.cc.purdue.edu

Name:		Rayshade Users mailing list
Description:	Discussion forum for users of the Rayshade raytracer
Platforms:	Most UNIX boxes, Amiga, Mac, IBM
Subscription:	rayshade-request@cs.princeton.edu
Posting:	rayshade-users@cs.princeton.edu

Name:		Lightwave 3D software for Toaster mailing list
Description:	Discussion forum for users of Lightwave, the Video
		Toaster modelling and rendering package
Platforms:	Amiga
Subscription:	lightwave-request@bobsbox.rent.com
		with "subscribe lightwave-l" in your message
Posting:	lightwave@bobsbox.rent.com

Name:		POV mailing list
Description:	Discussion forum for DKBTrace and POV renderers
Platforms:	Unix
Subscription:	listserv@trearn.bitnet
Posting:	dkb-l@trearn.bitnet

Name:		Mailing List For Massive Parallel Rendering
Description:	same?
Platforms:	Unix
Subscription:	mp-render-request@icase.edu
Posting:	mp-render@icase.edu

20) Specific references on file formats

    Graphics File Formats, David Kay and John Levine, Windcrest/McGraw-Hill
      1992, ISBN 0-8306-3059-7 paper, ISBN 0-8306-3060-0 $36.95 hardcover,
      ISBN 0-8306-3059-7 $24.95 paper.  Comments - 26 formats, no software
      (this is good, IMHO - I prefer books which are non-platform-dependent).
      Questions about this book may be sent to gbook@iecc.cambridge.ma.us.


21) What about GIF?

GIF stands for Graphics Interchange Format.  It is portable and usable upon
a wide variety of platforms.  It is quite limited in some ways (yes, the
keeper of the FAQ has some opinions after all), and in fact, I don't like
it much.  However, it looks to me like the most-Frequently Asked Question
which was not previously covered in this list.  The following is a list
of newsgroups and the like where one could go to find out about GIF.

Subject: alt.binaries.pictures FAQ - General info
Subject: alt.binaries.pictures FAQ - OS specific info
Newsgroups: alt.binaries.pictures.d,alt.binaries.pictures.misc,
	alt.binaries.pictures.utilities,alt.binaries.pictures.fractals,
	alt.binaries.pictures.fine-art.d,news.answers

Available in the indicated USENET newsgroup(s), or via anonymous ftp from
pit-manager.mit.edu in the files:

/pub/usenet/news.answers/pictures-faq/part1
/pub/usenet/news.answers/pictures-faq/part2

Also available from mail-server@pit-manager.mit.edu by sending a mail
message containing any or all of:

send usenet/news.answers/pictures-faq/part1
send usenet/news.answers/pictures-faq/part2

Send a message containing "help" to get general information about the
mail server.

Also, you could check out the resources described in sections 7, 8, and
20 above for more information.


22) What is morphing?

Warping is the deformation of an image by mapping each pixel to a new
location. Morphing is blending from one image or object to another one.
Valerie Hall has written an excellent introduction to warping and
morphing. This is available for anonymous ftp from marsh.cs.curtin.edu.au
in the directory pub/graphics/bibliography/Morph. There are three files:

        morph_intro.ps.Z     (PostScript version, many pictures - 1.5M)
        morph_intro.txt.Z    (text version)
        m_responses.Z        (Responses to morphing questions)

The files are compressed, so you must use binary transfer and
uncompress them afterwards.


23) How to ray-trace height fields

Height fields are a special case in ray-tracing.  They have a number of uses,
such as terrain rendering, and some optimization is possible.  Thus, they
get their own FAQ section.  Note that further references can no doubt be
located via the ray-tracing bibs in section 16 above.

The following paper seems to be the definitive reference:

F. Kenton Musgrave
Grid Tracing: Fast Ray Tracing For Height Fields
July, 1988
<musg88.ps.Z>

This is available as "Research Report YALEU/DCS/RR-639" from Yale University,
it's also in the SIGGRAPH '91 Fractal Modeling in 3D Computer Graphics and
Imaging course notes, and (best of all) it's available on the net:

    nic.funet.fi		pub/sci/papers/musg88.ps.Z
    weedeater.math.yale.edu	pub/Papers/musg88.ms.Z
    princeton.edu		pub/Graphics/Papers/musg88.ms.Z
    coral.cs.jcu.edu.au		graphics/papers/musg88.ps.Z
    gondwana.ecr.mu.OZ.AU	pub/papers/musg88.ms.Z and musg88.ps.Z

An implementation of this paper may be found in Rayshade.

Another paper exists:

%A David W. Paglieroni
%A Sidney M. Petersen
%T Parametric Height Field Ray Tracing
%J Proceedings of Graphics Interface '92
%I Canadian Information Processing Society
%C Toronto, Ontario
%D May 1992
%P 192-200

And still one more:

Musgrave, Kolb, and Mace
"The Synthesis and Rendering of Eroded Fractal Terrains",
Computer Graphics Vol 23, No. 3 (SIGGRAPH '89 procedings) p. 41-50



24) How to find the area of a 3D polygon

	The area of a triangle is given by (in C notation),

     area = 0.5 * ( ( x[0] * y[1] ) + ( x[1] * y[2] ) + ( x[2] * y[0] ) -
	            ( x[1] * y[0] ) - ( x[2] * y[1] ) - ( x[0] * y[2] ) );

and the area of a planar polygon is given by

     area = 0.0;

     for ( i = 0; i < n - 1; i++ )
         area += ( x[i] * y[i + 1] ) - ( x[i + 1] * y[i] );
     area += ( x[n - 1] * y[0] ) - ( x[0] * y[n - 1] );
     area /= 2.0;

If the area is a negative number, the polygon or triangle is
clockwise, if positive, it is counterclockwise.

>From Ronald Golman's Gem (in Graphics Gems II - see section 1 above), "Area
 of Planar Polygons and Volume of Polyhedra:"

The area of a polygon P0, P1, P2, ... Pn, not in the x-y plane, is
given by

     Area(Polygon) = 1/2 * | N . Sigma { Pk x Pk+1 } |

where N is the unit vector normal to the plane and P is a polygonal
vertex.  The . represents the dot product operator and the x
represents the cross product operator.  Sigma represents the summation
operator.  | | represents the absolute value operator.  Pn+1 is equal
to P0.


25) How to join ACM/SIGGRAPH

Probably the easiest way to join ACM/SIGGRAPH is to trot over to your
local technical library and find a copy of Communications of the ACM.
Somewhere within the first few pages will be an application blank.
Fill it out and mail it in.  ACM membership for students costs $23.00,
Voting or Associate Membership $77.00 (yearly)

SIGGRAPH student membership costs an additional $16.00, $26.00 for
Voting or Associate Members (also yearly).  To get TOG (Transactions
on Graphics) it's another $26.00 for students and $31.00 for Voting or
Associate Members.

If you just want to join SIGGRAPH without joining ACM, it'll cost you
$59.00 (no student discount).

There are surcharges for overseas airmailing of publications.

ACM Member services may be contacted via email at acmhelp@acmvm.bitnet. 
Their phone number is (212) 626-0500.  FAX number (212) 944-1318.
Snailmail address:

                ACM
                PO Box 12114
                Church Street Station
                New York, New York 10257

SIGGRAPH `93 will be held in Anaheim, California, at the Anaheim
Convention Center (just up the street from Disneyland) on August 1-6, 1993.

26) Where can I find MRI and CT scan volume data?

Volume data sets are available from the University of North Carolina at
omicron.cs.unc.edu (152.2.128.159) in /pub/softlab/CHVRTD.  (Commerical
use is prohibited.)

Head data - A 109-slice MRI data set of a human head.

Knee data - A 127-slice MRI data set of a human knee.

HIPIP data - The result of a quantum mechanical calculation of a SOD data
of a one-electron orbital of HIPIP, an iron protein.

SOD data - An electron density map of the active site of SOD (superoxide
dismutase). 

CT Cadaver Head data - A 113-slice MRI data set of a CT study of a cadaver
head. 

MR Brain data -  A 109-slice MRI data set of a head with skull partially
removed to reveal brain.

RNA data - An electron density map for Staphylococcus Aureus Ribonuclease.


27) Specific references on spatial data structures including quadtrees
	and octrees

H. Samet,
The Design and Analysis of Spatial Data Structures,
Addison-Wesley, Reading, MA, 1990.
ISBN 0-201-50255-0.

H. Samet,
Applications of Spatial Data Structures:  Computer Graphics, Image Processing, a
nd GIS,
Addison-Wesley, Reading, MA, 1990.
ISBN 0-201-50300-0.


28) Where can I get a program to plot XY(Z) data or f(x) data?

Gnuplot is a command-driven interactive data/function  plotting program.  It
runs on just about any machine, and is very flexible in terms of supported
output devices.  The official North American distribution site for the latest
version is dartmouth.edu in /pub/gnuplot.  More information is available from
the USENET newsgroup comp.graphics.gnuplot and its FAQ, graphics/gnuplot-faq.

ACE/gr (xmgr - Motif/xvgr - XView) is a data/function plotting tool for 
workstations or X-terminals using X.  Available from ftp.ccalmr.ogi.edu
in /CCALMR/pub/acegr.

robotx (Robot) is a general purpose plotting and data analysis program.
Requires XView, X-terminal or workstation.  Available from sunsite.unc.edu
in /pub/academic/data_analysis.

Xgraph is a popular two-dimensional plotting program that accepts data in a
form similar to the unix program graph and displays line graphs, scatter plots,
or bar charts on an X11 display.  Available from ic.berkeley.edu in /pub.

Drawplot is a program for drawing 2D plots on X10/X11 windows, SUNVIEW
displays, or HP2648 terminals. Available from xcf.berkeley.edu in /src/local.

29) Specific references on PEX and PHIGS

    PEXlib Programming Manual, Tom Gaskins, 1154 pages, O'Reilly & Associates,
	ISBN 1-56592-028-7

    PEXlib Reference Manual, edited by Steve Talbott, 577 pages, O'Reilly &
	Associates, ISBN 1-56592-029-5

    PHIGS Programming Manual, Tom Gaskins, 908 pages, O'Reilly & Associates,
	ISBN 0-93775-85-4 (softcover), ISBN 0-937175-92-7 (casebound)

    PHIGS Reference Manual, edited by Linda Kosko, 1099 pages, O'Reilly &
	Associates, ISBN 0-937175-91-9


30) SIGGRAPH Online Bibliography Project

The ACM SIGGRAPH Online Bibliography Project is a database of over 15,000
unique computer graphics and computational geometry references in BibTeX
format, available to the computer graphics community as a research and
educational resource.

The database is located at "siggraph.org".  Users may download the BibTeX
files via FTP and peruse them offline, or telnet to "siggraph.org" and log
in as "biblio" and interactively search the database for entries of interest,
by keyword.

Additions/corrections/suggestions may be directed to the admin,
"bibadmin@siggraph.org".
-- 
John T. Grieggs (Telos @ Jet Propulsion Laboratory)
4800 Oak Grove Drive, Pasadena, Ca. 91109 M/S 525-3660    (818) 306-6506
Uucp: {cit-vax,elroy,chas2}!jpl-devvax!grieggs
Arpa: ...jpl-devvax!grieggs@cit-vax.ARPA

========== END RAW ============================

Preprocessed:
============ START PREPROCESSED =================
 26apr93 comp graphic frequent ask question faq
origin griegg cerberus    expir mon gmt   archiv
name graphic faq  messag automat post week effort
cut repetit junk comp graphic last chang 26apr93
answer frequent ask question like includ post
pleas send mail don't want see post everi week
pleas add line kill file thank  copi faq coupl
week old want seek recent version latest version
faq alway avail archiv site pit manag mit edu alia
rtfm mit edu pub usenet news answer graphic faq
john  portal com  last updat 26apr93  sorri
haven't post coupl week call town due death famili
realiti folk  what new        content  general
refer graphic question draw three dimension object
two dimension screen quantiz bit imag bit convert
color grayscal quantiz grayscal black white rotat
raster imag arbitrari angl free imag manipul
softwar format document tiff iff biff nff fit etc
convert vector format get pixar film draw circl
bezier spline curv order standard document ftp
email tell whether point within planar polygon
tessel sphere specif refer ray trace global
illumin siggraph inform onlin siggraph panel
proceed avail graphic mail list specif refer file
format gif morph ray trace height field find area
polygon join acm siggraph find mri scan volum data
specif refer spatial data structur includ quadtre
octre get program plot data data specif refer pex
phig siggraph onlin bibliographi project   general
refer graphic question  comput graphic principl
practic 2nd foley van dam feiner hugh addison
wesley isbn  procedur element comput graphic david
roger mcgraw hill isbn mathemat element comput
graphic 2nd david roger alan adam mcgraw hill isbn
three dimension comput graphic alan watt addison
wesley isbn  introduct ray trace andrew glassner
academ press isbn graphic gem andrew glassner
academ press isbn  graphic gem jame arvo academ
press isbn  graphic gem iii david kirk academ
press isbn ibm disk mac disk digit imag warp georg
wolberg ieee comput societi press monograph isbn
digit imag process 2nd rafael gonzalez paul wintz
addison wesley isbn programm geometri adrian
bowyer john woodwark butterworth isbn pbk  automat
mail handler brown univers allow user comput
graphic principl practic foley van dam feiner hugh
obtain text errata inform distribut softwar packag
describ book also user send author feedback report
text error softwar bug make suggest submit exercis
receiv inform describ  put word help line use line
softwar distribut receiv inform specif concern
softwar packag srgp sphig  errata introduct ray
trace avail wuarchiv wustl edu graphic graphic
book introtort errata  errata digit imag warp
directori digit imag warp errata  code graphic gem
seri avail via anonym ftp princeton edu look
directori pub graphic graphicsgem various volum
gem gemsii gemsiii get readm file first  errata
graphic gem graphic gem avail wuarchiv wustl edu
graphic graphic book  list comput graphic comput
geometri imag process    draw three dimension
object two dimension screen  simpl answer divid
depth verbos explan see refer start  foley van dam
feiner hugh comput graphic book certain good start
chapter view read chapter visibl surfac determin
inform chapter shade chapter clip branch   quantiz
bit imag bit  find copi color imag quantize frame
buffer display paul heckbert siggraph proceed page
algorithm one work well fair simpl implement
includ raster toolkit see item  variant method
describ graphic gem note code graphic gem seri
avail ftp site describ  check john bradley divers
algorithm incorpor packag describ back manual
imagemagick packag see section contain anoth
quantiz algorithm present better job algorithm
slower  there also implement  wan wong
prusinkiewicz algorithm multidimension data
cluster transact mathemat softwar vol   avial
princeton edu pub graphic colorqu shar code modifi
form appear utah raster toolkit well   convert
color grayscal  ntsc formula  luminos red green
blue   quantiz grayscal black white  refer need
stuff  digit halfton robert ulichney mit press
isbn  start code check imag manipul softwar
mention item packag mention form gray convers
rotat raster imag arbitrari angl  obvious wrong
method loop pixel sourc imag transform coordin
copi pixel destin wrong leav hole destin instead
loop pixel destin imag appli revers transform
coordin copi pixel sourc method quit general use
one one map rotat add anti alias sub pixel sampl
howev much faster method antialis includ involv
three shear oper method origin creat raster
toolkit see implement also present pbmplus refer
fast algorithm raster  interfac vancouv articl
toolkit appear journal updat version rotat paper
appear graphic gem see section origin titl   free
imag manipul softwar  number toolkit convert one
imag format anoth simpl imag manipul size scale
plus mention color gray gray convers pointer  john
bradley base imag display manipul format convers
packag display mani imag format permit edit gif
file among other program updat see file contrib
tar export lcs mit edu  pbmplus jef poskanz
comprehens format convers imag manipul packag
latest version alway avail via anonym ftp ftp lbl
gov pbmplus tar wuarchiv wustl edu graphic graphic
packag pbmplus pbmplus tar export lcs mit edu
contrib pbmplus tar   provid portabl effici format
relat toolkit format versatil support pixel
arbitrari channel compon bit precis allow compress
machin byte order independ kit contain tool extens
support imag manipul digit halfton format convers
previous distribut tape univers waterloo ftp
version appear someday  utah rle toolkit convers
manipul packag similar pbmplus avail via ftp utah
edu pub urt princeton edu pub graphic urt freebi
engin umich edu pub urt   convers manipul packag
similar pbmplus version avail via ftp cmu edu usr
mlm ftp fbm tar ftp net pub fbm tar ucsd edu
graphic fbm tar   write imag format display x11
screen imag manipul version avail via ftp export
lcs mit edu contrib img tar venera isi edu pub img
tar along larg collect color imag  xim imag
manipul philip thompson essenti interact imag
manipul use x11r4 osf motif toolkit interfac
support imag bit format read write convert gif xwd
xbm tiff rle xim format write level postscript
util imag applic librari includ paint packag avail
via ftp gis mit edu   format display x11 screen
avail via ftp export lcs mit edu contrib xloadimag
nearest comp sourc archiv  xli grame gill updat
xloadimag numer improv speed number format support
avail place xloadimag contrib tape comp sourc
archiv   portabl librari read write tiff file plus
tool manipul read format avail via ftp ucbvax
berkeley edu pub tiff tar ftp net graphic tiff tar
xtiff x11 tool view tiff file written handl mani
differ kind tiff file possibl remain simpl portabl
effici xtiff illustr common problem build pixmap
use differ visual class distribut part sam leffler
libtiff packag also avail export lcs mit edu ftp
net comp sourc xtiff announc includ xlib version
alv sun specif imag toolkit version post comp
sourc sun 11dec89 also avail via email   popi imag
manipul languag version post comp sourc misc
12dec89  imagemagick x11 packag display interact
manipul imag includ tool imag convers annot
composit anim creat montag imagemagick read write
mani popular imag format avail via ftp export lcs
mit edu contrib imagemagick tar  khoro huge meg
graphic develop environ base x11r4 khoro compon
includ visual program languag code generat extend
visual languag ad new applic packag system
interact user interfac editor interact imag
display packag extens librari imag signal process
routin plot packag avail via ftp pprg eec unm edu
pub khoro  laboimag sunview base imag process
analysi packag includ imag manipul process measur
routin line help plus tool imag editor color tabl
editor sever biomed util avail via anonym ftp ad
com pub vision list archiv sharewar laboimag tar
san diego supercomput center imag tool softwar
tool read write manipul raster imag binari machin
avail via anonym ftp sdsc edu sdscpub  independ
jpeg group written packag read write jpeg file ftp
ftp net graphic jpeg jpegsrc tar  don't forget set
binari mode ftp tar file milnet folk still don't
name server address  ad com utah edu coral jcu edu
export lcs mit edu freebi engin umich edu ftp lbl
gov ftp net gis mit edu gondwana ecr karazm math
edu marsh curtin edu nic funet fir ftp ncsa uiuc
edu cmu edu pit manag mit edu pprg eec unm edu
princeton edu sdsc edu ucbvax berkeley edu venera
isi edu weedeat math yale edu wuarchiv wustl edu
zamenhof rice edu  pleas post mail messag say
can't ftp could someon mail number autom mail
server send thing like respons messag see item
detail  also newsgroup alt graphic pixutil specif
discuss softwar like find use inform   format
document tiff iff biff nff fit etc  almost certain
don't need read item free imag manipul softwar get
one packag look chanc excel imag convert go write
alreadi still want one format document mani file
avail anonym ftp zamenhof rice edu directori pub
graphic format  file collect net believ correct
archiv includ pixel format two three dimension
object format futur archiv uncertain moment mark
second graphic file format archiv activ maintain
ftp ncsa uiuc edu misc file format graphic format
appar neither complet might want check  fit stand
flexibl imag transport system it file format often
use astronomi despit name contain imag thing well
regular month fit basic inform post sci astro fit
read want know    convert vector format  lot peopl
ask convert hpgl postscript macdraw cgm whatev
import understand differ problem imag format
convers item convert one imag format anoth fair
easi problem sinc get past file header junk pixel
pixel basic object imag format vector format basic
object circl ellips drop shadow pattern fill round
corner rectangl etc vari one format anoth except
extrem restrict case simpli possibl one one
convers vector format  softwar convert cgm file
ftp psc edu contributor state run unix window
possibl mac better specif blurb welcom  hand quit
possibl close approxim render imag one format use
primit anoth far know one put togeth general
toolkit convert two differ hpgl postscript convert
post comp sourc misc check index nearest archiv
site  relat frequent question convert vector
format bitmap imag postscript sun raster format
hpgl x11 bitmap exampl commerci postscript clone
pc allow render disk file well printer also
postscript interpret next box sun x11 news use
render file you'r clever general answer howev
someon put togeth vector vector convers toolkit ad
vector raster convert trivial  gnu ghostscript fsf
current version includ driver ppm gif format file
thus use postscript ppm postscript gif filter
implement essenti postscript level alot display
postscript level   get pixar film  various john
lasset pixar comput anim short avail video tape
order direct cinema limit  film individu price
institut price luxo red dream tin toy knickknack
luxo red dream tin toy  tape vhs ntsc add tape pal
format also avail  tin toy shirt knickknack shirt
includ glass  individu order add first tape shirt
addit tape shirt institut order add first tape
addit tape foreign ship add tape shirt call intern
fax charg credit card call first verifi price
avail write  direct cinema limit 14th street santa
monica  allan braunsdorf say  siggraph sell tape
four short sale price get slight normal mayb
believ it avail renderman retail pixar address
pixar west cut blvd richmond  fax  obtain video
direct pixar contain luxo red dream tin toy
knicknack plus ship take order phone via fax major
credit card order mine last week receiv sever day
later don't expect abl rent copi local video store
accord licens agreement print back cover case
cannot rent   draw circl bezier spline curv  short
answer can't unless use ration spline approxim
circl approxim look accept sensit scale magnifi
scale error approxim magnifi deviat circular
visibl small becom glare larg want job right
consult articl  menageri ration spline circl lesli
piegl wayn tiller ieee comput graphic applic volum
number septemb page  rough non ration approxim
consult book  comput geometri design manufactur
faux pratt elli horwood publish halst press john
wiley  best known non ration approxim consult
articl  good approxim circl curvatur continu
bezier curv tor dokken morten daehlen tom lych
knut morken comput aid geometr design volum number
combin page elsevi scienc publish north holland
order standard document  american nation standard
institut sell ansi standard also iso intern
standard sale offic mail address broadway help
complet name number  use number know  cgm comput
graphic metafil iso gks graphic kernel system ansi
phig programm hierarch interact graphic system
ansi ige asm ansi y14 26m languag bind often separ
relat number exampl gks fortran bind  standard
progress made avail key mileston solicit comment
graphic public includ ansi let know order avail
global engin    ftp email  number site archiv
usenet sourc newsgroup make avail via email queri
system send messag autom server say someth like
send comp sourc unix fbm hour day later get file
mail  addit least one ftp mail server send mail
note servic time turn due abus   tell whether
point within planar polygon  consid ray origin
point interest continu infin cross odd number
polygon edg along way point within polygon ray
cross even number edg point either outsid polygon
within interior hole form intersect polygon edg
idea known trade jordan curv theorem see eric hain
articl glassner ray trace book inform includ
treatment special case  anoth method sum absolut
angl point vertic polygon sum point insid sum
point outsid howev method order magnitud slower
previous method evalu trigonometr function usual
quit cost  code method plus barycentr triangl test
found ray trace news vol avail princeton edu pub
graphic rtnew rtnv5n3   tessel sphere  one simpl
way recurs subdivis triangl base recurs octahedron
level divid  post nice routin call sphere generat
coordin it avail ftp ftp lbl gov princeton edu
specif refer ray trace global illumin  rick speer
maintain cross index ray trace bibliographi
highlight edit  citat span period novemb paper
siggraph graphic interfac eurograph intern
ausgraph proceed decemb iii citat keyword easi
lookup cross indic keyword author glossari keyword
use  bib form postscript file printout page long
list ftp site dir contain file it name speer
raytrac bib compress site  site dir wuarchiv wustl
edu graphic graphic bib bib speer karazm math edu
pub graphic gondwana ecr pub paper nic funet pub
sci paper graphic coral jcu edu graphic paper
illumin bibliographi refer format search electron
simpl awk script search keyword includ
bibliographi avail site list current version
maintain princeton edu pub graphic paper raybib
radbib   trace relat research paper book inform
essenti plaintext latex troff format program
includ collect avail site rtab  siggraph inform
onlin  steve cunningham ralph orlick  acm siggraph
announc onlin inform site siggraph org site provid
siggraph inform via anonym ftp electron mail
archiv server  anonym ftp servic standard ftp
directori includ confer public subdirectori
retriev inform electron mail send mail  bodi
messag includ messag send follow topic subtop wish
good place start command send index give date list
avail inform   siggraph panel proceed avail  steve
cunningham bob judd  acm siggraph announc avail
siggraph panel proceed siggraph org site proceed
avail three format text ascii rtf rich text format
suitabl mani word processor word word macintosh
retriev siggraph org two way  anonym ftp chang one
directori public s91 panel proceed text rtf word
text rtf file download ascii mode word file store
macbinari format must download binari mode
directori contain tabl content file toc describ
content panel file  electron mail send mail
retriev either text rtf file suggest first retriev
index file put one messag send panel91 txt index
send panel91 rtf index bodi messag get necessari
inform retriev actual transcript file   graphic
mail list  varieti graphic relat mail list cover
either singl product singl topic activ particip
one time find focus expertis brought bear isol
topic noth short amaz  pleas send appropri inform
other like see ad  name imagin mail list descript
discuss forum user imagin render anim packag
impuls inc platform amiga ibm    name dctv mail
list descript discuss forum user digit creation
dctv box softwar file format platform amiga
name rayshad user mail list descript discuss forum
user rayshad raytrac platform unix box amiga mac
ibm    name lightwav softwar toaster mail list
descript discuss forum user lightwav video toaster
model render packag platform amiga  subscrib
lightwav messag   name pov mail list descript
discuss forum dkbtrace pov render platform unix
name mail list massiv parallel render descript
platform unix    specif refer file format  graphic
file format david kay john levin windcrest mcgraw
hill isbn paper isbn hardcov isbn paper comment
format softwar good imho prefer book non platform
depend    gif  gif stand graphic interchang format
portabl usabl upon wide varieti platform quit
limit way yes keeper faq opinion fact don't like
much howev look like frequent ask question
previous cover list follow list newsgroup like one
could find gif  alt binari pictur faq general info
alt binari pictur faq specif info newsgroup alt
binari pictur alt binari pictur misc alt binari
pictur util alt binari pictur fractal alt binari
pictur fine art news answer  avail indic usenet
newsgroup via anonym ftp pit manag mit edu file
pub usenet news answer pictur faq part1 pub usenet
news answer pictur faq part2   messag contain
send usenet news answer pictur faq part1 send
usenet news answer pictur faq part2  send messag
contain help get general inform mail server  also
could check resourc describ section inform   morph
warp deform imag map pixel new locat morph blend
one imag object anoth one valeri hall written
excel introduct warp morph avail anonym ftp marsh
curtin edu directori pub graphic bibliographi
morph three file  morph intro postscript version
mani pictur morph intro txt text version respons
respons morph question  file compress must use
binari transfer uncompress afterward   ray trace
height field  height field special case ray trace
number use terrain render optim possibl thus get
faq section note refer doubt locat via ray trace
bib section  follow paper seem definit refer
kenton musgrav grid trace fast ray trace height
field  musg88  avail research report yaleu dcs
yale univers it also siggraph fractal model comput
graphic imag cours note best it avail net  nic
funet pub sci paper musg88 weedeat math yale edu
pub paper musg88 princeton edu pub graphic paper
musg88 coral jcu edu graphic paper musg88 gondwana
ecr pub paper musg88 musg88  implement paper found
rayshad  anoth paper exist  david paglieroni
sidney petersen parametr height field ray trace
proceed graphic interfac canadian inform process
societi toronto ontario    still one  musgrav kolb
mace synthesi render erod fractal terrain comput
graphic vol siggraph proced    find area polygon
area triangl given notat  area   area planar
polygon given  area   area area area  area negat
number polygon triangl clockwis posit
counterclockwis  ronald golman gem graphic gem see
section area planar polygon volum polyhedra  area
polygon plane given  area polygon sigma  unit
vector normal plane polygon vertex repres dot
product oper repres cross product oper sigma
repres summat oper repres absolut valu oper equal
join acm siggraph  probabl easiest way join acm
siggraph trot local technic librari find copi
communic acm somewher within first page applic
blank fill mail acm membership student cost vote
associ membership year  siggraph student
membership cost addit vote associ member also year
get tog transact graphic it anoth student vote
associ member  want join siggraph without join acm
it'll cost student discount  surcharg oversea
airmail public   phone number fax number snailmail
address  acm box church street station new york
new york  siggraph held anaheim california anaheim
convent center street disneyland august  find mri
scan volum data  volum data set avail univers
north carolina omicron unc edu pub softlab chvrtd
commer use prohibit  head data slice mri data set
human head  knee data slice mri data set human
knee  hipip data result quantum mechan calcul sod
data one electron orbit hipip iron protein  sod
data electron densiti map activ site sod superoxid
dismutas  cadav head data slice mri data set studi
cadav head  brain data slice mri data set head
skull partial remov reveal brain  rna data
electron densiti map staphylococcus aureus
ribonucleas   specif refer spatial data structur
includ quadtre octre  samet design analysi spatial
data structur addison wesley read isbn  samet
applic spatial data structur comput graphic imag
process gis addison wesley read isbn   get program
plot data data  gnuplot command driven interact
data function plot program run machin flexibl term
support output devic offici north american
distribut site latest version dartmouth edu pub
gnuplot inform avail usenet newsgroup comp graphic
gnuplot faq graphic gnuplot faq  ace xmgr motif
xvgr xview data function plot tool workstat termin
use avail ftp ccalmr ogi edu ccalmr pub acegr
robotx robot general purpos plot data analysi
program requir xview termin workstat avail sunsit
unc edu pub academ data analysi  xgraph popular
two dimension plot program accept data form
similar unix program graph display line graph
scatter plot bar chart x11 display avail berkeley
edu pub  drawplot program draw plot x10 x11 window
sunview display hp2648 termin avail xcf berkeley
edu src local  specif refer pex phig  pexlib
program manual tom gaskin page o'reilli associ
isbn  pexlib refer manual edit steve talbott page
o'reilli associ isbn  phig program manual tom
gaskin page o'reilli associ isbn softcov isbn
casebound  phig refer manual edit linda kosko page
o'reilli associ isbn   siggraph onlin bibliographi
project  acm siggraph onlin bibliographi project
databas uniqu comput graphic comput geometri refer
bibtex format avail comput graphic communiti
research educ resourc  databas locat siggraph org
user download bibtex file via ftp perus offlin
telnet siggraph org log biblio interact search
databas entri interest keyword  addit correct
suggest direct admin   john griegg telo jet
propuls laboratori oak grove drive pasadena uucp
cit vax elroy chas2 jpl devvax griegg
========== END PREPROCESSED =====================


Feature vector (sorted, non-zero values only):
Term, Index, Value:
graphic, 3997, 0.277168991179
edu, 3001, 0.260114991728
format, 3612, 0.235850895076
imag, 4512, 0.213665818106
ftp, 3709, 0.20904598769
avail, 811, 0.196342551719
siggraph, 7941, 0.192424679708
pub, 6971, 0.168811693534
isbn, 4777, 0.160034376777
file, 3477, 0.153982022946
data, 2385, 0.129161935378
manipul, 5483, 0.11129040388
packag, 6375, 0.110006197001
tar, 8701, 0.106221763683
mail, 5447, 0.103361856228
mit, 5781, 0.0957615502124
trace, 9028, 0.0930613039038
polygon, 6728, 0.0924282559008
paper, 6409, 0.0911161016498
gem, 3813, 0.0855220798703
faq, 3385, 0.0843027346941
refer, 7213, 0.0842456310487
comput, 1993, 0.0833912534058
postscript, 6772, 0.0820813287535
toolkit, 8989, 0.0818661474452
inform, 4637, 0.0790586146247
includ, 4579, 0.0786281329977
ray, 7118, 0.0754074404912
send, 7785, 0.0739231106354
acm, 240, 0.0727428985349
binari, 1096, 0.0717395087097
list, 5298, 0.0704762326803
version, 9479, 0.0701874079175
site, 7994, 0.0693927886983
tape, 8700, 0.0677807209939
convert, 2115, 0.0676721641494
archiv, 618, 0.0651052595659
convers, 2114, 0.0649202307353
raster, 7104, 0.0641415599027
pbmplus, 6483, 0.0636837262403
area, 622, 0.0635700186725
vector, 9444, 0.0625926349187
specif, 8203, 0.0620543622521
morph, 5866, 0.0611026665837
pictur, 6622, 0.0609191323327
pixel, 6651, 0.060624330632
softwar, 8103, 0.0602088620965
anonym, 532, 0.0597058174126
princeton, 6868, 0.0595390163238
comp, 1955, 0.0595302423536
number, 6156, 0.0586609129655
plot, 6694, 0.0570634531823
display, 2734, 0.0570020544998
bibliographi, 1075, 0.0563971139672
x11, 9883, 0.0563017017422
mri, 5898, 0.0562679771092
messag, 5650, 0.0546914343822
render, 7277, 0.0545618975688
lcs, 5169, 0.0534648332607
errata, 3178, 0.0533421381455
proceed, 6889, 0.0521741881525
page, 6382, 0.0515776543102
usenet, 9365, 0.0515253125011
pixar, 6650, 0.0512662223641
dimension, 2653, 0.0505617334312
alt, 446, 0.049130598418
platform, 6676, 0.0488098573057
method, 5666, 0.0487277939742
tiff, 8926, 0.0477646539301
export, 3310, 0.0476294527248
tool, 8988, 0.0473492796843
rtf, 7519, 0.0468899809244
bib, 1070, 0.0468899809244
user, 9366, 0.0467209876031
contrib, 2102, 0.0458269999378
wesley, 9707, 0.0455481431109
addison, 262, 0.0455481431109
program, 6905, 0.0447972950474
shirt, 7892, 0.044451781788
sourc, 8153, 0.044389196759
answer, 535, 0.044389196759
approxim, 593, 0.0435803004223
interact, 4704, 0.043279601509
text, 8822, 0.0430499797329
volum, 9577, 0.0425717331091
order, 6281, 0.0425140837884
use, 9363, 0.0424982733325
contain, 2079, 0.0422998850519
electron, 3034, 0.0415500355495
quantiz, 7022, 0.040806881738
gif, 3869, 0.0406127548884
digit, 2642, 0.0405317748851
press, 6841, 0.0404258782114
onlin, 6245, 0.0404127896916
read, 7135, 0.0402710698958
index, 4596, 0.0402150785085
directori, 2669, 0.0399154992499
ansi, 534, 0.0398023289002
associ, 706, 0.0396234928252
warp, 9644, 0.0389418150202
phig, 6587, 0.0389418150202
keyword, 4997, 0.0385537230158
circl, 1765, 0.0374869507279
server, 7812, 0.0373545432191
write, 9865, 0.0373145131264
general, 3818, 0.0371474807624
fbm, 3415, 0.0364385144887
john, 4878, 0.0363809734061
wustl, 9878, 0.0363714492675
academ, 205, 0.0363714492675
describ, 2556, 0.0362740346817
toy, 9026, 0.0355614254304
planar, 6661, 0.0355614254304
section, 7759, 0.0355119597632
height, 4238, 0.0354072545609
post, 6766, 0.0351246039254
anoth, 533, 0.0348852476002
wuarchiv, 9876, 0.0347736860659
retriev, 7343, 0.0347736860659
standard, 8313, 0.0344859165223
book, 1218, 0.0344620790416
panel, 6406, 0.0342005536473
tin, 8940, 0.0341774815761
reilli, 7238, 0.0341774815761
gnuplot, 3922, 0.0341774815761
process, 6890, 0.034030742182
descript, 2557, 0.0339629938502
net, 6010, 0.0338843267601
org, 6286, 0.0338467257754
forum, 3620, 0.0333522002142
news, 6031, 0.0332307303903
unix, 9284, 0.0330405473764
join, 4881, 0.0328952711985
manual, 5492, 0.0327503644524
slice, 8029, 0.0326455053904
ration, 7110, 0.0326455053904
item, 4798, 0.0322033203132
newsgroup, 6032, 0.0319076072626
imagemagick, 4514, 0.0318418631202
copi, 2130, 0.0317249137889
algorithm, 407, 0.0313728436341
interfac, 4709, 0.0312391256066
add, 260, 0.0309826941996
simpl, 7965, 0.0307688709476
grayscal, 4013, 0.0305513332918
cross, 2241, 0.0305061608161
spline, 8245, 0.0302763629578
triangl, 9090, 0.0300162633348
urt, 9356, 0.0291719464453
griegg, 4045, 0.0291719464453
berkeley, 1039, 0.029097159414
implement, 4544, 0.0290278718553
color, 1907, 0.029002356064
portabl, 6749, 0.0288924191035
plus, 6700, 0.0288756272938
spatial, 8189, 0.0286960379111
geometri, 3844, 0.0286960379111
code, 1871, 0.0286797992705
distribut, 2753, 0.0281673579753
speer, 8219, 0.0281339885546
utah, 9380, 0.0279820380703
discuss, 2708, 0.0277557756998
document, 2788, 0.0276552752076
addit, 263, 0.0272979420374
point, 6710, 0.0271577131699
fit, 3510, 0.0271269350927
frequent, 3686, 0.0270773806203
draw, 2861, 0.0266933535454
gondwana, 3942, 0.0266710690728
ecr, 2987, 0.0266710690728
object, 6173, 0.0265743701278
applic, 585, 0.0263380318618
lbl, 5165, 0.0261148928984
glassner, 3894, 0.0261148928984
feiner, 3432, 0.0261148928984
word, 9829, 0.0258465592812
set, 7815, 0.0258465592812
ad, 257, 0.025818911833
curv, 2306, 0.0257626562506
hpgl, 4408, 0.0256331111821
misc, 5757, 0.0255579159401
math, 5544, 0.0255579159401
question, 7032, 0.0254831320079
chapter, 1658, 0.0254587233295
head, 4215, 0.0253829718053
oper, 6261, 0.0251763075152
amiga, 472, 0.0249913004853
lightwav, 5271, 0.024828008494
gis, 3884, 0.024828008494
check, 1682, 0.0245224579253
yale, 9929, 0.0244841290428
mcgraw, 5578, 0.0244841290428
funet, 3728, 0.0244841290428
destin, 2572, 0.0244841290428
dam, 2343, 0.0244841290428
cgm, 1633, 0.0244841290428
bit, 1122, 0.024338253873
david, 2397, 0.0242726096868
nic, 6046, 0.0241701917002
khoro, 5002, 0.0241701917002
foley, 3575, 0.0241701917002
form, 3610, 0.0241002959206
student, 8468, 0.0239535974712
rayshad, 7120, 0.0238813973401
illumin, 4509, 0.0238813973401
languag, 5113, 0.0232222974842
relat, 7247, 0.022986971712
repres, 7294, 0.0229817137954
want, 9634, 0.0229329010699
edit, 2996, 0.0229234019156
hugh, 4428, 0.0229134999689
analysi, 490, 0.0228088567142
membership, 5626, 0.0227072722184
bezier, 1065, 0.0227072722184
field, 3466, 0.0226307244721
screen, 7719, 0.0223761453246
price, 6857, 0.0223761453246
rotat, 7490, 0.0223246938055
xloadimag, 9903, 0.022151096044
week, 9691, 0.0221453084398
pit, 6642, 0.0219832516702
structur, 8460, 0.0219317676559
video, 9506, 0.0217923181477
map, 5498, 0.0215685256493
vol, 9570, 0.0215220284333
librari, 5250, 0.0213546828364
download, 2843, 0.0212443527365
arbitrari, 604, 0.0212443527365
introduct, 4733, 0.0211131381533
fractal, 3637, 0.0211131381533
updat, 9333, 0.0208394689224
sum, 8532, 0.0207459058479
support, 8576, 0.0207109184223
hill, 4300, 0.0206313564369
van, 9416, 0.0205203321884
gray, 4011, 0.0205203321884
consult, 2076, 0.0205203321884
mani, 5479, 0.0204686831129
like, 5272, 0.0202588344875
email, 3060, 0.0202395614927
fax, 3413, 0.0202064983304
vote, 9585, 0.0202063948458
termin, 8796, 0.0201075392542
dream, 2865, 0.0201075392542
global, 3904, 0.0200113201285
line, 5285, 0.0199321669663
sun, 8539, 0.0198877943208
coordin, 2126, 0.0198262537489
film, 3479, 0.0197371627191
level, 5229, 0.0197360255456
possibl, 6765, 0.0197152962876
sphere, 8226, 0.0196502186715
angl, 511, 0.0196502186715
box, 1254, 0.019647210632
appear, 580, 0.0195600057454
ucbvax, 9185, 0.0194479642969
dctv, 2410, 0.0194479642969
biff, 1081, 0.0194479642969
2nd, 81, 0.0194012921577
red, 7194, 0.019253134292
databas, 2386, 0.0192443977267
short, 7904, 0.0190158476159
latest, 5141, 0.0189497031145
editor, 2997, 0.018879642595
weedeat, 9690, 0.0187559923697
sdsc, 7736, 0.0187559923697
part1, 6435, 0.0187559923697
marsh, 5520, 0.0187559923697
laboimag, 5087, 0.0187559923697
karazm, 4954, 0.0187559923697
curtin, 2305, 0.0187559923697
ccalmr, 1579, 0.0187559923697
bibtex, 1076, 0.0187559923697
address, 264, 0.0186925284209
compress, 1986, 0.0186772716096
jpeg, 4905, 0.0184856511802
disk, 2720, 0.0184856511802
public, 6973, 0.0184807776589
direct, 2667, 0.0184349613966
visual, 9547, 0.0184239744068
street, 8440, 0.0184239744068
content, 2084, 0.0184239744068
essenti, 3196, 0.018363334267
cost, 2169, 0.0182779558614
zamenhof, 9972, 0.0182192572443
recurs, 7193, 0.0182192572443
nff, 6040, 0.0182192572443
anaheim, 486, 0.0182192572443
gov, 3965, 0.0181872991896
north, 6110, 0.0179651981034
venera, 9459, 0.0177807127152
tessel, 8811, 0.0177807127152
pprg, 6791, 0.0177807127152
part2, 6436, 0.0177807127152
magnifi, 5440, 0.0177807127152
freebi, 3670, 0.0177807127152
cunningham, 2293, 0.0177807127152
citat, 1773, 0.0177807127152
routin, 7499, 0.0177055174733
search, 7746, 0.0176557511203
quit, 7043, 0.0176190581701
new, 6023, 0.017516659702
ibm, 4472, 0.0174632786415
collect, 1898, 0.0174167231132
rice, 7381, 0.0174099285989
iso, 4784, 0.0174099285989
isi, 4779, 0.0174099285989
halfton, 4125, 0.0174099285989
gaskin, 3783, 0.0174099285989
note, 6118, 0.0173569334276
maintain, 5454, 0.0172805558821
topic, 8992, 0.0172362853465
edg, 2993, 0.0171925514367
origin, 6293, 0.0171083563758
txt, 9176, 0.017088740788
toaster, 8962, 0.017088740788
sunview, 8551, 0.017088740788
pexlib, 6580, 0.017088740788
img, 4523, 0.017088740788
gks, 3888, 0.017088740788
eec, 3004, 0.017088740788
util, 9384, 0.0169407280915
previous, 6855, 0.0169004147852
function, 3722, 0.0169004147852
sci, 7690, 0.0168211148154
scale, 7659, 0.0168211148154
unm, 9292, 0.0168054330606
sigma, 7945, 0.0168054330606
case, 1540, 0.0167259602079
ask, 689, 0.0166624520753
institut, 4683, 0.0165931651246
cover, 2194, 0.0165931651246
howev, 4406, 0.0165842280562
mode, 5806, 0.016556535334
announc, 524, 0.016556535334
machin, 5416, 0.0164136254297
don, 2811, 0.0163675793988
xview, 9914, 0.0163227526952
umich, 9205, 0.0163227526952
transact, 9046, 0.0163227526952
tom, 8976, 0.0162761610556
x11r4, 9884, 0.0161134611335
pex, 6579, 0.0161134611335
ncsa, 5977, 0.0161134611335
ieee, 4491, 0.0161134611335
dir, 2665, 0.0161134611335
steve, 8390, 0.0160793120558
mac, 5410, 0.0160793120558
intern, 4716, 0.0160475232741
univers, 9282, 0.0159866757025
locat, 5323, 0.0159847738076
knee, 5042, 0.0159209315601
junk, 4931, 0.0159209315601
cmu, 1852, 0.0159209315601
bradley, 1264, 0.0159209315601
receiv, 7167, 0.0157733658647
limit, 5278, 0.0157733658647
com, 1917, 0.0157733658647
written, 9867, 0.0157441511028
bind, 1097, 0.0157426770172
way, 9666, 0.0157301599564
intro, 4731, 0.0155767260081
anim, 515, 0.0155736625344
articl, 665, 0.015504554489
slower, 8045, 0.0154214892063
activ, 252, 0.0154108678512
local, 5322, 0.0153581953335
terrain, 8801, 0.0152756666459
rent, 7283, 0.0152756666459
start, 8334, 0.0152275181592
unc, 9220, 0.0151381814789
rle, 7425, 0.0151381814789
ntsc, 6147, 0.0151381814789
product, 6896, 0.0151057845091
base, 923, 0.0150550742062
nearest, 5984, 0.0150081316674
similar, 7961, 0.0149390484147
basic, 937, 0.0148471197887
differ, 2633, 0.0148128382174
autom, 802, 0.0147673973627
free, 3668, 0.0146916740642
ppm, 6787, 0.014548579707
loop, 5344, 0.014548579707
mention, 5632, 0.014439850719
iff, 4492, 0.0143480189555
non, 6097, 0.014300681821
flexibl, 3541, 0.0142536799784
uiuc, 9197, 0.0141629018243
graph, 3996, 0.0141629018243
andrew, 505, 0.0141629018243
pleas, 6688, 0.0141517075186
help, 4249, 0.0141330252769
motif, 5879, 0.0140754254355
ascii, 676, 0.0140754254355
engin, 3109, 0.014073926372
design, 2564, 0.0140193963156
iii, 4502, 0.0139910190351
divid, 2764, 0.0139910190351
densiti, 2531, 0.0139910190351
respons, 7323, 0.0138952758517
research, 7307, 0.0138778878499
raytrac, 7121, 0.0138306038986
allow, 432, 0.0138262210474
manag, 5472, 0.013775283683
suggest, 8525, 0.013758463124
alan, 376, 0.0137542376246
bitmap, 1126, 0.0134709298972
project, 6909, 0.013391772195
transform, 9053, 0.0131581084794
tabl, 8667, 0.0131581084794
effici, 3006, 0.0131581084794
sale, 7590, 0.013100145781
varieti, 9431, 0.0130435470381
given, 3887, 0.0129500057138
ship, 7888, 0.0129341947718
pov, 6778, 0.0129341947718
credit, 2225, 0.0128295984845
workstat, 9840, 0.0126807673738
principl, 6870, 0.0126331354097
scan, 7660, 0.0125864283967
automat, 803, 0.0125864283967
mathemat, 5545, 0.0124515144064
compon, 1980, 0.0124081738538
good, 3948, 0.01236617422
visibl, 9541, 0.0123237674534
brain, 1266, 0.0122422228447
store, 8417, 0.0122024643264
programm, 6906, 0.0122024643264
extens, 3320, 0.0122024643264
independ, 4595, 0.0120496932713
element, 3037, 0.0120496932713
look, 5341, 0.0120055158178
obtain, 6183, 0.0119060484707
follow, 3578, 0.0118587921937
plane, 6663, 0.011673628504
popular, 6746, 0.01158050711
hole, 4343, 0.01158050711
roger, 7458, 0.0115502509175
excel, 3261, 0.0115203705881
folk, 3576, 0.0114908568977
sell, 7778, 0.0114617009578
resourc, 7320, 0.0114328941993
outsid, 6332, 0.0114328941993
societi, 8093, 0.0114044283571
york, 9960, 0.0113762954564
problem, 6887, 0.011351084593
paul, 6469, 0.0113484877989
absolut, 193, 0.0112140765436
togeth, 8969, 0.0111368933786
publish, 6974, 0.0111117063884
normal, 6108, 0.0110135157921
imagin, 4518, 0.010919176815
error, 3180, 0.0108507740371
special, 8198, 0.0107195413706
american, 469, 0.0106983488494
member, 5625, 0.0106565158717
various, 9432, 0.0106153980228
fast, 3397, 0.0106153980228
easi, 2959, 0.0106153980228
cut, 2313, 0.010574971263
phone, 6601, 0.0105550098572
command, 1933, 0.0105550098572
practic, 6793, 0.0105352127447
individu, 4604, 0.0105155772431
black, 1133, 0.0105155772431
indic, 4600, 0.0104767806667
stand, 8311, 0.0104197344612
generat, 3819, 0.0104197344612
bodi, 1194, 0.0104197344612
know, 5052, 0.0103621030001
card, 1513, 0.0103275647332
white, 9737, 0.0103095471539
job, 4873, 0.010238796889
fair, 3363, 0.0101870672482
continu, 2092, 0.0101531887221
model, 5807, 0.0100868304285
later, 5140, 0.0100868304285
window, 9774, 0.0100063769223
coupl, 2187, 0.0100063769223
singl, 7983, 0.00997493417927
servic, 7813, 0.00989807985914
accept, 208, 0.00988299933583
author, 796, 0.00986801277278
seri, 7805, 0.00980898317011
center, 1606, 0.00970904387472
comment, 1936, 0.00965374636837
present, 6837, 0.00962656714598
known, 5054, 0.00961309184133
report, 7291, 0.00957311304417
info, 4636, 0.00946964179689
view, 9510, 0.00939485850133
y14, 9923, 0.00937799618487
xwd, 9916, 0.00937799618487
xvgr, 9913, 0.00937799618487
xmgr, 9904, 0.00937799618487
xgraph, 9898, 0.00937799618487
versatil, 9478, 0.00937799618487
troff, 9111, 0.00937799618487
theorem, 8846, 0.00937799618487
subtop, 8508, 0.00937799618487
sphig, 8228, 0.00937799618487
skull, 8010, 0.00937799618487
sdscpub, 7737, 0.00937799618487
rtab, 7518, 0.00937799618487
protein, 6941, 0.00937799618487
pratt, 6799, 0.00937799618487
monica, 5836, 0.00937799618487
libtiff, 5252, 0.00937799618487
elsevi, 3054, 0.00937799618487
dartmouth, 2378, 0.00937799618487
blend, 1154, 0.00937799618487
biblio, 1073, 0.00937799618487
alv, 456, 0.00937799618487
allan, 421, 0.00937799618487
adrian, 282, 0.00937799618487
acegr, 230, 0.00937799618487
26m, 76, 0.00937799618487
11dec89, 14, 0.00937799618487
creat, 2217, 0.00929863224624
complet, 1975, 0.00929863224624
human, 4432, 0.00928687019059
correct, 2156, 0.00926351723444
say, 7653, 0.0091602325997
waterloo, 9658, 0.00910962862217
tog, 8968, 0.00910962862217
srgp, 8283, 0.00910962862217
src, 8282, 0.00910962862217
shear, 7865, 0.00910962862217
shar, 7854, 0.00910962862217
rna, 7429, 0.00910962862217
portal, 6750, 0.00910962862217
pixutil, 6654, 0.00910962862217
milnet, 5727, 0.00910962862217
mileston, 5714, 0.00910962862217
macdraw, 5413, 0.00910962862217
macbinari, 5411, 0.00910962862217
lesli, 5221, 0.00910962862217
kolb, 5059, 0.00910962862217
keeper, 4972, 0.00910962862217
hierarch, 4289, 0.00910962862217
glossari, 3910, 0.00910962862217
fir, 3494, 0.00910962862217
14th, 22, 0.00910962862217
alway, 457, 0.0090844328363
larg, 5124, 0.00890771968126
provid, 6949, 0.00889771827147
vhs, 9496, 0.00889035635759
verbos, 9469, 0.00889035635759
transcript, 9051, 0.00889035635759
tor, 8996, 0.00889035635759
subdivis, 8486, 0.00889035635759
softlab, 8101, 0.00889035635759
ronald, 7473, 0.00889035635759
rectangl, 7189, 0.00889035635759
rafael, 7065, 0.00889035635759
psc, 6958, 0.00889035635759
printout, 6873, 0.00889035635759
osf, 6309, 0.00889035635759
ogi, 6211, 0.00889035635759
linda, 5282, 0.00889035635759
kay, 4965, 0.00889035635759
dkbtrace, 2776, 0.00889035635759
deform, 2486, 0.00889035635759
curvatur, 2307, 0.00889035635759
counterclockwis, 2182, 0.00889035635759
chvrtd, 1748, 0.00889035635759
broadway, 1326, 0.00889035635759
alia, 409, 0.00889035635759
sever, 7823, 0.00887783935181
wrong, 9869, 0.00882884915348
exampl, 3258, 0.00872445923529
current, 2299, 0.00871519010787
xbm, 9890, 0.00870496429947
usabl, 9358, 0.00870496429947
polyhedra, 6729, 0.00870496429947
perus, 6570, 0.00870496429947
oversea, 6352, 0.00870496429947
omicron, 6232, 0.00870496429947
luminos, 5390, 0.00870496429947
latex, 5142, 0.00870496429947
jpegsrc, 4908, 0.00870496429947
ige, 4493, 0.00870496429947
erod, 3174, 0.00870496429947
elli, 3048, 0.00870496429947
clone, 1829, 0.00870496429947
biomed, 1109, 0.00870496429947
admin, 271, 0.00870496429947
chang, 1650, 0.0086422955722
xlib, 9902, 0.00854437039402
solicit, 8114, 0.00854437039402
rtfm, 7520, 0.00854437039402
renderman, 7278, 0.00854437039402
pixmap, 6653, 0.00854437039402
metafil, 5657, 0.00854437039402
lookup, 5342, 0.00854437039402
levin, 5232, 0.00854437039402
hardcov, 4169, 0.00854437039402
clockwis, 1828, 0.00854437039402
certain, 1619, 0.00851130119535
vertex, 9481, 0.00840271653031
variant, 9429, 0.00840271653031
usr, 9375, 0.00840271653031
synthesi, 8657, 0.00840271653031
retail, 7336, 0.00840271653031
interior, 4713, 0.00840271653031
easiest, 2961, 0.00840271653031
cluster, 1848, 0.00840271653031
annot, 523, 0.00840271653031
airmail, 363, 0.00840271653031
wiley, 9760, 0.00827600283132
sunsit, 8549, 0.00827600283132
someday, 8122, 0.00827600283132
offlin, 6208, 0.00827600283132
kirk, 5030, 0.00827600283132
interchang, 4706, 0.00827600283132
hain, 4118, 0.00827600283132
gill, 3877, 0.00827600283132
asm, 692, 0.00827600283132
place, 6657, 0.00823840414382
watt, 9660, 0.00816137634759
uncertain, 9221, 0.00816137634759
treatment, 9079, 0.00816137634759
supercomput, 8557, 0.00816137634759
prohibit, 6908, 0.00816137634759
jordan, 4890, 0.00816137634759
infin, 4629, 0.00816137634759
glare, 3892, 0.00816137634759
expertis, 3299, 0.00816137634759
ellips, 3049, 0.00816137634759
commer, 1938, 0.00816137634759
vancouv, 9418, 0.00805673056674
ucsd, 9189, 0.00805673056674
grove, 4065, 0.00805673056674
deviat, 2590, 0.00805673056674
clever, 1812, 0.00805673056674
blvd, 1182, 0.00805673056674
blurb, 1179, 0.00805673056674
best, 1052, 0.00804179229302
uncompress, 9228, 0.00796046578004
santa, 7614, 0.00796046578004
philip, 6590, 0.00796046578004
parametr, 6422, 0.00796046578004
kernel, 4991, 0.00796046578004
feedback, 3428, 0.00796046578004
contributor, 2104, 0.00796046578004
carolina, 1527, 0.00796046578004
xli, 9901, 0.00787133850862
queri, 7030, 0.00787133850862
kit, 5033, 0.00787133850862
grid, 4043, 0.00787133850862
afterward, 325, 0.00787133850862
ace, 229, 0.00787133850862
tell, 8767, 0.0078600441612
someon, 8124, 0.0078600441612
thompson, 8879, 0.00778836300404
telnet, 8768, 0.00778836300404
subdirectori, 8484, 0.00778836300404
script, 7724, 0.00778836300404
quantize, 7023, 0.00778836300404
pal, 6395, 0.00778836300404
meg, 5616, 0.00778836300404
highlight, 4296, 0.00778836300404
glass, 3893, 0.00778836300404
divers, 2762, 0.00778836300404
blank, 1139, 0.00778836300404
pc, 6484, 0.00771074460317
isol, 4785, 0.00771074460317
gnu, 3920, 0.00771074460317
chart, 1674, 0.00771074460317
canadian, 1483, 0.00771074460317
septemb, 7801, 0.00763783332296
scatter, 7669, 0.00763783332296
sensit, 7791, 0.00756909073946
ralph, 7082, 0.00756909073946
novemb, 6129, 0.00756909073946
discount, 2695, 0.00756909073946
abus, 202, 0.00756909073946
wayn, 9667, 0.0075040658337
alias, 410, 0.0075040658337
trivial, 9110, 0.00744237704047
foreign, 3598, 0.00744237704047
comprehens, 1985, 0.00744237704047
believ, 1009, 0.00742799176982
sam, 7599, 0.00738369868134
robot, 7442, 0.00738369868134
log, 5328, 0.00738369868134
fortran, 3618, 0.00738369868134
alot, 438, 0.00738369868134
agreement, 338, 0.00738369868134
richmond, 7386, 0.00732775055674
readm, 7141, 0.00732775055674
incorpor, 4587, 0.00732775055674
dot, 2826, 0.00732775055674
shadow, 7837, 0.00727428985349
quantum, 7025, 0.00727428985349
impuls, 4558, 0.00727428985349
gonzalez, 3946, 0.00727428985349
circular, 1768, 0.00727428985349
run, 7543, 0.00724548444254
suitabl, 8530, 0.00722310477589
permit, 6552, 0.00722310477589
massiv, 5536, 0.00722310477589
decemb, 2438, 0.00722310477589
better, 1060, 0.00719578565823
printer, 6872, 0.00717400947777
driven, 2875, 0.00717400947777
convent, 2113, 0.00717400947777
day, 2402, 0.0071326753525
town, 9024, 0.00712683998919
ontario, 6248, 0.00712683998919
magnitud, 5441, 0.00712683998919
geometr, 3843, 0.00712683998919
verifi, 9472, 0.00708145091217
header, 4217, 0.00708145091217
optim, 6274, 0.00703771271777
exercis, 3279, 0.00703771271777
revers, 7356, 0.00699550951757
mon, 5831, 0.00699550951757
corner, 2149, 0.00699550951757
vertic, 9482, 0.00695473721319
telo, 8769, 0.00695473721319
submit, 8491, 0.00695473721319
adam, 258, 0.00695473721319
span, 8181, 0.00691530194929
primit, 6866, 0.00691530194929
oak, 6166, 0.00691530194929
formula, 3614, 0.00691530194929
filter, 3481, 0.00691530194929
uniqu, 9276, 0.00687711881232
rick, 7387, 0.00687711881232
pointer, 6711, 0.00687711881232
evalu, 3226, 0.00687711881232
aid, 351, 0.00687711881232
procedur, 6888, 0.00684011072946
licens, 5254, 0.00684011072946
illustr, 4511, 0.00684011072946
composit, 1982, 0.00684011072946
partial, 6439, 0.00680420753211
negat, 5996, 0.00680420753211
journal, 4898, 0.00680420753211
channel, 1652, 0.00680420753211
buffer, 1371, 0.00680420753211
macintosh, 5418, 0.00676934515507
focus, 3569, 0.00676934515507
sub, 8482, 0.0067354649486
manufactur, 5494, 0.0067354649486
clip, 1821, 0.0067354649486
brown, 1344, 0.0067354649486
shade, 7835, 0.00667044004285
round, 7494, 0.00667044004285
reveal, 7352, 0.00667044004285
restrict, 7330, 0.00667044004285
pattern, 6468, 0.00667044004285
intersect, 4722, 0.00667044004285
byte, 1438, 0.00667044004285
progress, 6907, 0.00663920016191
processor, 6891, 0.00663920016191
green, 4025, 0.00663920016191
explan, 3302, 0.00660875124962
vari, 9426, 0.0065790542397
iron, 4767, 0.0065790542397
thing, 8869, 0.00657115256212
sharewar, 7856, 0.00655007289049
paint, 6391, 0.00652177351907
depth, 2545, 0.00652177351907
august, 784, 0.00652177351907
need, 5993, 0.0064672021325
transport, 9065, 0.00646709738591
transfer, 9052, 0.00646709738591
subscrib, 8496, 0.00646709738591
bar, 904, 0.00646709738591
rough, 7493, 0.00644066406264
rich, 7382, 0.00644066406264
pasadena, 6446, 0.00644066406264
despit, 2570, 0.00644066406264
seek, 7766, 0.00641479924224
famili, 3378, 0.00641479924224
entri, 3135, 0.00641479924224
devic, 2591, 0.00641479924224
numer, 6157, 0.00638947898503
imho, 4524, 0.00638947898503
branch, 1269, 0.00636468083237
amaz, 459, 0.00636468083237
welcom, 9701, 0.00634038368692
appropri, 590, 0.00631656770483
sampl, 7601, 0.00629321419834
particip, 6440, 0.00629321419834
parallel, 6420, 0.00629321419834
jpl, 4912, 0.00622575720319
signal, 7947, 0.00620408692692
expir, 3300, 0.00620408692692
confer, 2025, 0.00618280021557
held, 4243, 0.00616188372672
vision, 9542, 0.00612111142234
odd, 6198, 0.00612111142234
eric, 3170, 0.00610123216322
bug, 1373, 0.00610123216322
extend, 3319, 0.00608167615844
creation, 2218, 0.00608167615844
astro, 724, 0.00608167615844
anti, 542, 0.00608167615844
output, 6329, 0.0060624330632
laboratori, 5090, 0.0060624330632
georg, 3847, 0.0060624330632
diego, 2629, 0.0060624330632
bear, 971, 0.0060624330632
year, 9943, 0.0060450638968
educ, 3002, 0.00604349302146
driver, 2876, 0.00604349302146
church, 1746, 0.00604349302146
make, 5459, 0.00603290035336
gmt, 3917, 0.00602484663564
mechan, 5603, 0.0059883993678
communiti, 1953, 0.0059883993678
california, 1459, 0.0059883993678
slight, 8034, 0.00595302423536
jet, 4860, 0.00595302423536
jame, 4820, 0.00595302423536
extrem, 3333, 0.00595302423536
trade, 9033, 0.00593571936422
communic, 1950, 0.00593571936422
necessari, 5990, 0.00591865996054
brought, 1343, 0.00591865996054
huge, 4427, 0.00590183915775
faster, 3399, 0.00590183915775
art, 660, 0.00588525037344
wide, 9747, 0.00585274385964
propuls, 6936, 0.005836814252
precis, 6809, 0.005836814252
hall, 4128, 0.005836814252
combin, 1921, 0.005836814252
frame, 3643, 0.00582109288049
drop, 2878, 0.00582109288049
west, 9708, 0.00579025355502
uucp, 9388, 0.00579025355502
titl, 8953, 0.00579025355502
calcul, 1451, 0.00579025355502
astronomi, 729, 0.00579025355502
print, 6871, 0.00576018529404
modifi, 5814, 0.00576018529404
class, 1789, 0.00576018529404
remov, 7272, 0.00574542844884
separ, 7797, 0.00571644709964
moment, 5828, 0.00571644709964
equal, 3156, 0.00571644709964
charg, 1664, 0.00571644709964
time, 8936, 0.00571512732657
interpret, 4720, 0.00567424389943
remain, 7264, 0.00563347159505
realiti, 7148, 0.00563347159505
insid, 4671, 0.00563347159505
somewher, 8130, 0.00562018231294
effort, 3007, 0.00562018231294
offici, 6207, 0.00559403633116
environ, 3139, 0.00559403633116
size, 8000, 0.00558117345139
regular, 7234, 0.00558117345139
appar, 577, 0.00558117345139
wish, 9801, 0.0055684466893
improv, 4557, 0.00555585319418
handl, 4149, 0.00555585319418
blue, 1176, 0.00554339020395
key, 4994, 0.00551884511132
prefer, 6819, 0.00549479095361
forget, 3604, 0.00548294191397
unit, 9278, 0.00545958840748
san, 7603, 0.00543667975685
measur, 5601, 0.00542538701853
robert, 7437, 0.00541419933047
hour, 4395, 0.00541419933047
accord, 219, 0.0054031147562
doubt, 2830, 0.00538124746661
depend, 2537, 0.00537046113607
death, 2423, 0.00537046113607
period, 6546, 0.00535977068528
leav, 5184, 0.00535977068528
technic, 8737, 0.00533867070909
fine, 3485, 0.00533867070909
offic, 6206, 0.00532825793587
appli, 584, 0.00532825793587
date, 2391, 0.00528748563148
bob, 1189, 0.00528748563148
surfac, 8587, 0.00525778862156
whatev, 9718, 0.00524805036759
vax, 9439, 0.00524805036759
common, 1948, 0.00524805036759
determin, 2582, 0.00523839033337
chanc, 1649, 0.00522880727235
drive, 2873, 0.00521929996755
definit, 2484, 0.00520050790093
concern, 2004, 0.00520050790093
studi, 8469, 0.00517285914775
purpos, 6993, 0.00517285914775
instead, 4682, 0.0051637823666
kill, 5012, 0.00514583176777
haven, 4207, 0.0051369559504
past, 6456, 0.00508503416969
obvious, 6185, 0.00508503416969
commerci, 1940, 0.00508503416969
usual, 9377, 0.00507659436106
station, 8346, 0.00507659436106
futur, 3737, 0.00507659436106
involv, 4750, 0.00504341521424
toronto, 9003, 0.00501911806879
month, 5847, 0.00495662776417
test, 8812, 0.00494149966791
term, 8795, 0.00494149966791
simpli, 7967, 0.00492655950319
valu, 9414, 0.00491915844725
unless, 9289, 0.00489722468805
mark, 5512, 0.00489722468805
speed, 8217, 0.00489000143635
nice, 6047, 0.00486858838771
build, 1378, 0.00485452193736
becom, 983, 0.00482005918412
alreadi, 443, 0.00482005918412
turn, 9158, 0.00478655652209
recent, 7168, 0.00477996654508
nation, 5962, 0.00473482089845
posit, 6761, 0.00472222740333
small, 8054, 0.00468521932047
result, 7332, 0.00466713374967
expect, 3290, 0.00466116516276
sorri, 8142, 0.00463758268572
stuff, 8472, 0.00460874034914
import, 4551, 0.00455850562149
close, 1830, 0.00455850562149
old, 6216, 0.00454762167576
opinion, 6266, 0.00450504491824
scienc, 7692, 0.00449463214501
develop, 2588, 0.00447918009784
requir, 7302, 0.00447407322055
major, 5458, 0.00441442457674
abl, 180, 0.0043999634671
yes, 9951, 0.00438094856042
noth, 6119, 0.00437624143976
hand, 4145, 0.00436222961764
orbit, 6280, 0.0043529782813
understand, 9246, 0.00431220597692
exist, 3283, 0.00431220597692
kind, 5021, 0.00429013805879
state, 8342, 0.00426418019225
consid, 2059, 0.00421799879174
mayb, 5564, 0.00420978942338
second, 7753, 0.00418549227793
group, 4064, 0.00418549227793
fact, 3350, 0.0041268139188
everi, 3235, 0.00411920207191
cours, 2190, 0.00411541413872
idea, 4482, 0.00411163809858
far, 3386, 0.00401740509095
probabl, 6885, 0.00393326814949
actual, 254, 0.00386687540987
ll, 5314, 0.00380980930444
let, 5225, 0.00379813282637
long, 5336, 0.00378944926666
lot, 5356, 0.00375252858381
sinc, 7977, 0.0036662014715
right, 7399, 0.00365841718676
someth, 8126, 0.0035402689793
work, 9833, 0.00340724204905
thank, 8832, 0.00336800992134
peopl, 6530, 0.00326302559923
